A Young Girl's Rage
 (
お嬢様の暴力
,

Ojōsama no bōryoku
)
 is the seventh chapter of the
Mushoku Tensei

manga adaptation
.

Cover Characters

Eris Boreas Greyrat

Summary

Shocked, Rudeus finds the young lady of the Boreas household to be more than a "problem child" as Philip described- Eris Boreas Greyrat. When asking why she hit him, Eris screams at matching pitch as Sauros that she refuses to be mentored by someone younger than her. In a failed act to teach empathy, Rudeus slaps her for hitting him, only for Eris to go berserker and attack him. Escaping her sight to hide, Rudeus is found by Philip, and tells him he refuses to quit now. Concocting a plan with Philip to engage Eris' studies by staging an abduction of her and Rudeus in the city, and has the Boreas Steward, Thomas, make arrangements.

Much later, Rudeus finds himself and a sleeping Eris bound up with rope in a dingy storeroom. When Eris wakes up, she immediately screeches demands for her release, only for a kidnapper to enter and brutalize her into being quiet. Escaping his bindings, Rudeus overhears the man talking with another and deduces that they've really been kidnapped. Rudeus heals Eris part way, refusing to heal her completely unless she tames herself and not draw attention. Sealing the door to plan an escape, Rudeus tries to find a way that won't teach Eris that violence is a solution. So in lying that their captors plan to kill them later, so he makes her promise to listen to him in exchange for escaping. As the kidnappers struggle to open the door, the kids escape and find they are not in Roa anymore, and Eris immediately breaks her promise of quiet following not seeing any use to doing so anymore.

As their abductors near, Eris tries to bargain for his guidance again, but Rudeus compels her to promise to be silent and listen in exchange for getting home. Once she promises, Rudeus finds a coach station and, through explaining the necessity of reading and math, plans their fares for a ride to Roa over the next two days. As they venture, they find inns for overnight stays and coaches to continue on, but Rudeus also sees Eris's worry drain her, and they finally reach Roa. Seeing Eris's stressed face, Rudeus tries reassuring her that she's safe, but finds her missing again after turning his back for a moment, with only her headband on the ground.

Appearances

Characters

Eris Boreas Greyrat

Rudeus Greyrat

Thomas

Sauros Boreas Greyrat
 (Flashback)

Philip Boreas Greyrat

Skills

Regions

Others

Differences from Light Novel

Trivia

To Be Added.

Navigation

Template:JuvenileP