This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

Adventure Guild
 is one of the biggest organizations in the world. A place where men of great strength and valor gather.

Adventure Guild Main Branch in
Millishion
Adventure Guild Main hall in Rikarisu City, Demon Continent]]
1/2

Adventure Guilds can be found in all major cities in the world. Adventurers can take missions up to one rank above or below their current rank. It's main headquarters is found in
Millishion
, Holy Kingdom of Milis in the Adventurer's District.

Receptionist

Guild Receptionist in Rosenburg City
Eris
 talking to a Receptionist in the Millishion Adventure Guild
Guild Receptionist in Rikarisu City
1/3

The Receptionist is the main contact of the Adventure Guild with its Adventurers and is usually seen at the reception counter who are well endowed females with their
Race
 depending on the Continent or City the HQ is based and usually wears revealing outfits.

Duties

Membership Services
 - Assist Adventurers in registering in the guild and informing them of the guild rules, regulations and other general guild information.

Adventurer Card Services
 - Process Adventurer Cards that includes updating party information and disbanding them

Job Request Services
 - Provide information on a Job Request such as if its still available
; Accept or Decline a job taken by an Adventurer like when Rudeus was refused to solo an A-Rank Job of killing Luster Grizzlies or confirm a completed job and give out payment.

Taking Bets
 - Since fighting between adventurers is a common occurrence everyday, the guild does not interfere nor quell the fighting. Instead, the guild staff like the Receptionist start up progressive gambling and take bets.

Voiced by:
Japanese
 Taichi YÅ(
Episode 10
), Komatsu Naoko (
Eris The Goblin Slayer
), Kazama Mayuki (
Season 2 Episode 1
)

Code of Conduct

Use of the Adventurer's Guild
 - If one registers with the Adventurer's Guild, they will receive services available to Adventurers.

Service Content
 - All Adventurer's Guilds throughout the world offer these services: job offerings, delivery of compensation and rewards, purchase of raw materials, and exchange of currency.

Registration Information
 - Adventurers receive a card with their own information under their control upon registering for the Adventurer's Guild. It is possible to re-issue it if lost, but rank will be reset to F. Also, each area has it's own fine for it.

Withdrawal from the Adventurer's Guild
 - If you request it, withdrawal from the guild is possible. Re-registration is possible, but rank will restart at F.

Prohibited Conduct
 - If prohibited actions are discovered, a fine will be applied and Adventurers guild qualifications will be revoked. The below actions are considered prohibited.

Actions which go against a countries laws.

Actions which disgrace and cause the reliability of the guild to fall.

Actions which interfere or obstruct other Adventurers jobs.

Buying, selling, and trading of jobs.

Breach of Contract Compensation
 - If you fail a job you have accepted you must pay compensation for the breach of contract, two times the amount of the job reward compensation. Repayment period is half a year. If compensation is not paid, Adventurers guild qualification will be revoked.

Rank
 - There are seven ranks from F to S based on Adventurers proven skills. As a general rule of thumb, you can only take jobs within one above or below your current rank.

Rank Promotions and Demotions
 - It is possible to raise your rank by succeeding a regulated number of jobs. However, if you feel that your ability isn't up to standard it is possible to remain at your current rank as well. Also, if you fail a certain number of jobs in succession, your rank will be demoted by one.

Obligation
 - In the case that a country is under attack by monsters and a request for assistance is made from the guild, you have an obligation to obey. Also, if an emergency situation arises, Adventurers have an obligation to obey the guild staff members.

Adventurer Card





Adventure Card filled



Adventurer Cards are cards that shows someone as an official adventurer. It also contains Magic Power that can change the letterings of the card into different
Language
 by pressing the center of the back of the card and saying the desired race's lettering you want to see but its costs Magic Power stored in a small magic crystal that normally lasts 1 year. The Magic Power in the card is automatically replenished on completing a job.

The letters of the card changes based on the race. There are cases where races are mixed, but generally blood is stronger on one side and those letters are shown on the card. If one goes too overboard with the card, the magic power in the card will disappear faster. In those cases, the guild will replenish the card if necessary.

Since the
Human
 Race only celebrates their birthday every 5 years,
Rudeus Greyrat
 forgot when his birthday is that he tried to look at his Adventurer Card everyday since it updates the age automatically on the day but in the end decides it doesn't matter.

There are seven sections present in one's Adventurer Card:

Name

Gender

Race

Age

Job

Rank

Party

Party

Rules

A party can have up to seven members.

Only members within 1 rank above or below of the party leader can join the party.

The party rank is decided by the accepted job.

The party is averaged based on all party members.

On completion of a job, all members of the party will receive equal status.

It is possible to take individual jobs while in a party.

The party leader and a guild staff member are required to join a party.

In order to withdraw only the guild staff member is required.

The party leader has authority to forcefully withdraw members.

In the event of the death of the leader, the party will automatically be dissolved.

It is possible to create a clan with more than two parties.

Clans in good standing with the guild will receive a number of privileges.

Known Parties

Counter Arrow

Dead End

Fangs of the Black Wolf

P Hunter

Rikarisu Gang

Stepped Leader

Super Blaze

Tokurabu Village Gang
/Tokurabu Toughs (anime)

Jobs

The Request Board in Millishion, Millis Continent
The Request Board in the Temporary Adventure Guild on
Fittoa Region
The Request Board and Request Cards in the
Demon Continent
1/3

The jobs are done through request cards which varies per continent like for the Demon Continent uses wooden cards
 while in most Human Adventurer guild like in Millishion the request cards are paper
. If the client puts a finger onto it and says a word of "Completed", the request's status will change to "Completed". showing this to the guild, adventurers can exchange it for money. The rewards from F rank jobs are roughly 5 stone coins. E rank jobs are all roughly 1 scrap iron coin. F and E rank jobs are fundamentally all jobs around the town, however, in D rank and above, the number of harvesting jobs increases.

Form

The rank of the job

The job

Reward

Job Details

Place

Period

Deadline

Job Owner Name

Notes about the job

Promotion and Demotion

F > E

Clear 10 F rank jobs.

Clear 5 consecutive E rank jobs.

E > D

Clear 50 F rank jobs.

Clear 25 E rank jobs.

Clear 10 consecutive D rank jobs.

D > C

Clear 100 E rank jobs.

Clear 40 D rank jobs.

Clear 10 C rank jobs.

C > B

Clear 100 D rank jobs

Clear 50 C rank jobs

Clear 20 consecutive B rank jobs

B > A

Clear 300 C rank jobs

Clear 100 B rank jobs

Clear 20 A rank jobs

A > S

Clear 100 A rank jobs

Clear 20 S rank jobs.

Demotion

There is also a rank demotion if one repeatedly fails to clear the jobs.

Failing 5 consecutive jobs of a lower rank will result in a demotion.

Failing 10 consecutive jobs of the rank will result in a demotion.

Failing 5 consecutive jobs of a higher rank will not result in a demotion, but you will not be able to receive higher rank jobs anymore.

Rank Benefits

S Rank

The Guild rents out a horse for free when doing an urgent delivery quest

Inn cost rates are much cheaper

The Guild will offers more profitable jobs

The Guild disregards the majority of incidents that violate the job contract

References