This article
lacks information
 and requires expansion. Please
expand this page
 to include missing information to help improve the article.

Info

Story

Relationships

Appearance

Family

Rudeus Greyrat

Rudeus escaping with Aisha in the Anime
Rudeus giving Aisha his headband in the Anime
Rudeus shopping with Aisha in the Anime
1/3

Rudeus is her older half-brother. Her first encounter with him was in the Shirone Kingdom in
Light Novel Volume 6
. There she showed her intelligence, whom she figured out that the person who saved her was indeed Rudeus, who was hiding his identity from her under the alias "Knight of the Shadow Moon". Before meeting Rudeus, Aisha considers herself a genius and the rest of the people around her are idiots. They later on meet again in
Light Novel Volume 11
 where she becomes his maid, as she expressed her interest of becoming one in Volume 6 after seeing Rudeus is more of a genius than she is. Although she is a maid in their house, Rudeus chooses to see her as his little sister instead of one. She is somewhat of a bro-con, acting suggestively towards him but as she grows older, her feelings towards him dies down upon realizing he will only see her as his sister despite her affection for him is apparent and she is content to be his maid for the rest of his life.
 She also has leverage over him, as she found out about the shrine to his wives in
Light Novel Volume 14
 and proceeds to use that to push him around and get what she wants.

Norn Greyrat

Norn is her older half-sister. They were raised together in their early childhood, until the Mana Calamity Incident separated them. The two meet again in the
Millis Continent
, after Rudeus sent Aisha and Lilia to live with Paul. They went to a Millis school together, where Norn started to resent Aisha, as she was constantly compared to her, since Aisha is blatantly more talented than Norn. They constantly bicker and fight. Norn is also a source of insecurity for Aisha, as she feels that she is treated more better than her and the subject of favoritism even though she feels that she is better than her. By
Light Novel Volume 11
 though, their relationship gets better. Even though they still argue and compete, they actually enjoy it.

Lilia Greyrat

Lillia is her mother. She always had a strained relationship with her. Ever since she was born, she was set on the path of being a maid since Lilia wanted her to be Rudeus' maid as a sign of gratitude of what Rudeus has done for saving her
. This caused her to expect certain things from her and didn't give her a normal childhood. They were teleported together due to the
Teleport Incident
, but unlike Norn and Paul, they didn't become close. When Lilia started to live with Rudeus, she still criticized her for certain actions.

Paul Greyrat

Paul is her father. She was never particularly close to him. He tried to maintain his distance from his daughters in
Light Novel Volume 1
, as he wanted to become a strict father. However, after the mana calamity, he was separated from her for two years. It was stated what their relationship was like, but from her somewhat unbothered attitude when she gets news of his death in
Light Novel Volume 12
, she was never close to him unlike Norn and Rudeus.

Zenith Greyrat

Zenith is the "legitimate" wife of Paul. Although they are not related by blood, Zenith treats her as her own daughter. She is seen planting flowers with her after
Light Novel Volume 12
, seemingly socializing with her even though she wasn't able to communicate with her.

Lucy Greyrat

Lucy is her half-niece.

Lara Greyrat

Lara is her half-niece.

Ars Greyrat





Ars proposes Aisha their marriage at the near end of the light novel.



Ars is her half-nephew-turned-husband. He has always been close to her, as he always looked delighted to be around her.
Although one of the redundancy side chapters was deleted by the author following the undeniable controversy, he was not satisfied with the novel (which was violated in terms of use by the site) and allowed himself to revise some minor changes rather than scrapping the same chapter as a whole, continues to keep their relationship along with the elopement and pregnancy.

Sieghart Saladin Greyrat

Sieghart is her half-nephew.

Lily Greyrat

Lily is her half-niece.

Christina Greyrat

Christina is her half-niece.

Leroy Greyrat

Leroy is Aisha and Ars' son. After Rudeus finally finds Aisha, he finds her to be already pregnant and Aisha is ready to accept whatever punishment she deserves but asks that her son be spared.

Friends

References