This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

Information

Story

Relationships

Appearance

Aisha Greyrat
 (
アイシャ
・
グレイラット
)
 is the daughter of
Paul Greyrat
 and
Lilia Greyrat
 and the younger half-sister to
Rudeus Greyrat
 and
Norn Greyrat
. Raised by her mother to be a maid to the brother she never met, Aisha was initially very skeptical of him. After meeting him, however, she came to hold genuine respect toward him.

Appearance

Aisha has maroon hair that parts from the middle of her head, frames her face and tied behind her head. She also has green eyes and her canine tooth is clearly visible when she smiles.

When she was a child, she wore a child-sized maid outfit created with high quality materials by her mother
Lilia Greyrat
 decorated with frilly embroidery.

As she grew up, she became a woman with average height while having a very well-endowed chest.

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Personality

Born and raised by
Lilia Greyrat
, Aisha's personality is more of an adult than those of her age, able to act and speak in the manner of a maid. She is smart, manipulative, cunning, cute and without any regard for what happens to her subject. At one point she worked
Ruijerd Superdia
 to the point where he complains, manipulates
Rudeus Greyrat
 into giving her his side of the story, and escapes the castle by herself.

She has a playful personality and a major brother-complex as she sometimes makes suggestive comments towards Rudeus and has no problem being naked in front of him when taking baths together.

It is revealed that she likes gardening, and cute things but usually forbidden by
her mother
 over maid duties.

Since Aisha is technically an illegitimate daughter of
Paul Greyrat
, she has an inferiority complex and thinks that
her family
 does not love her as much as
Norn Greyrat
. This causes Aisha to be hungry for attention and very competitive with Norn. This is further reinforced by
Claire Latreia
, her step-grandmother who looks at Aisha with disdain and gets angry at her for being more talented than Norn. Due to these factors, her relationship with Norn isn't good.

Background






Aisha being cared for by Lilia in the Anime



Before Aisha was born, her mother Lilia was urgently hired by Paul who is expecting their first child and immediately got hired to be their maid since they are acquainted in their childhood and she also has experiences handling child deliveries. Due to  hearing Paul and Zenith's moans every night, Lilia eventually gave in to her desire and seduces Paul and by the time Zenith got pregnant with Norn, Lilia revealed to be pregnant as well with Paul being the father. With the affair revealed, Lilia admits her fault and initially plans leave the
Greyrat House
 and go back to her family after Zenith gives birth but since its winter, Zenith refuses but is still upset about the matter. Through Rudeus' intervention, Zenith was able to forgive Lilia and also tells her that she is now part of the family much to her joy and would feel indebted to Rudeus. As such, when Aisha was born, Lilia trains her to be a maid for Rudeus even after Rudeus is taken to the
Citadel of Roa
.

In
K417
, the
Teleport Incident
 occurs where Aisha who is age 4 at the time, is teleported alongside Lilia into the Shirone Kingdom where she was mostly raised by and looked up to Lilia. During their time in Shirone, Lilia with the servants of the palace continues training Aisha to serve
Rudeus Greyrat
 and helped her in various ways. Aisha, at the time, did not want to serve her
elder brother
 that she had never met and likewise, doubted Lilia's stories about him after discovering Rudeus' treasure that is kept by Lilia all this time.

After Rudeus saves Aisha and Lilia from Shirone Kingdom, Aisha is impressed with Rudeus and decides to serve as his maid of her own volition. It is also revealed that the reason she did not want to serve Rudeus before was because she thought he was a pervert that treasured the underwear of young girls.

Power and Abilities

Intellectual Abilities






Aisha analyzing trade routes in the Manga



Aisha is regarded as a genius by her family and allies that she is able negotiate her situation that will put her in an advantageous position such as analyzing the trade routes of the merchants they are travelling was able to reach
Sharia
 earlier than expected while using
Ruijerd Superdia
's fighting skills to help with the negotiations.
 She is also able utilize the advice given to her and the available resources at hand to establish the Rude Mercenary Company and solve the problem with
Linia Dedoldia
's debt to Rudeus.

Academic Abilities

Aisha is at fine level in reading, writing history and mathematics that after a year of of study there is not much to teach her.

Magic

Being a talented girl, by the time Aisha started living with
Rudeus Greyrat
, she was at Elementary rank for all six basic magic types. It is stated that Rudeus spends a good deal of his free time teaching magic to Aisha, though no mention is ever made about her skills improving.

Sword Techniques

Aisha is at elementary rank in
Water God Style
 when she was 10 years old

Equipment

Achievements

Aisha is the Vice-President and de facto leader of the Rude Mercenary Company

Perugius Dola
 thinks of Aisha highly, allowing her to come and go from Castle Chaos Breaker as she pleases.

In order to fulfill
Rudeus Greyrat
's dream of eating Japanese food again, she successfully cultivates rice despite the unsuitable weather.

Quotes

Mother
 taught me that if a child like me asks with upturned eyes "I want to send a letter to
father
", then even without money it will work out.

Suddenly, Aisha bent slightly at the waist and struck a pose with her hands behind her head. I've definitely seen that somewhere before. "
Who taught this to you?
" "
Pursena
. If I do it like this, she said it would be an instant knockout.
"

Rudeus:
 "Someday, when you find someone you love, you can start a family of your own."

Aisha:
 "What kind of person would that be I wonder..."

Trivia

Aisha knows of the secret shrine in the basement.

Aisha keeps a
Rudeus Greyrat
 doll in her room.

According to the diary, Aisha was the only
family
 member that always supported Rudeus.

The name of Aisha and
Norn Greyrat
 are based of playable characters in the video game
Ogre Battle: The March of the Black Queen.

Spoilers ahead

In
Jobless Red Carpet
 (as shown in a light novel), she ends up marrying
Arus Greyrat
 and had a child named
Leroy Greyrat
. This was previously deleted in the web novel due to violations on the website.

References

Navigation

Greyrat Household

Family Head

Rudeus Greyrat

Members

Paul Greyrat
 •
Zenith Greyrat
 •
Lilia Greyrat
 •
Norn Greyrat
 •
Aisha Greyrat

Sylphiette
 •
Roxy Migurdia
 •
Eris Boreas Greyrat


Lucy Greyrat
 •
Lara Greyrat
 •
Ars Greyrat
•
Sieghart Saladin Greyrat

Servants

Rinia Dedorudia
 •
Pursena Adorudia

Pets

Leo
 •
Beat
 •
Jirou
 •
Matsukaze