Angel
 is the third side story chapter of the
Mushoku Tensei

manga adaptation
.

Cover Characters

Sylphiette

Summary

In Buena Village, Sylphie brings her father, Laws, his lunch and greets the bard before returning to magic practice. Laws details Sylphie's being bullied as a child until Rudeus saved her, and they became inseparable friends, Sylphie practically worshipping Rudeus. But both were too dependent on the other, so Paul sent Rudeus to work for nobles in Roa and Lawls had to talk Sylphie into accepting his leaving to be a stronger mage. After that, Sylphie worked hard just to be independent for herself, still struggling even as Laws tells the Bard.

On the road, Sylphie reviews her assignments for the day, and reflects on how it's been three years since Rudy left. Worrying about his safety, Sylphie also wonders if Rudeus is making friends, especially female friends. Recalling her childhood bedtime stories of a prince saving a princess, Sylphie would see Rudeus as her prince and realizes she loves him, fearful he's gotten with another girl and forgotten about her. She begins to cry again thinking of wives having to be protected by the husbands, begging for rudy to save her again. As she falls into sadness, the Bard finds her looking for a doctor, but Sylphie finds she's carrying an injured Somal. As he calls Sylphie a demon again and to keep away, she yells at Somal reminding him that she isn't a demon before ignoring him to just use chant-less healing on his injury. With the pain gone, Somal and friends quietly blush seeing Sylphie as cute, leaving Bard alone to inquire Sylphie about her chant-less casting.

Hearing how she learned chant-less magic from Rudy, Bard steers the objective of Sylphie's magic that can protect others, and bids farewell. Grateful to Bard's speech, Sylphie is happy thinking she can get stronger to protect Rudeus and that both can protect the other, Sylphie does away with the old story she once thought of as a little girl. Imagining Rudy in love with her, all red with her ears fluttering, Sylphie focuses on getting stronger and more attractive for Rudeus. Then, she is surprised to see a bright light and is caught in the mana calamity. The words in her mind as she vanishes being that she swears to Rudeus that she'll get stronger to be with him forever.

Appearances

Characters

Sylphiette

Bard

Laws

Rudeus Greyrat
 (Flashback)

Paul Greyrat
 (Flashback)

Somar

Skills

Regions

Others

Differences from Light Novel

Trivia

To Be Added.

Navigation

Template:JuvenileP