A woman who
Rudeus Greyrat
 saves from near death under
Orsted
's orders.

Appearance

Bewitchingly gorgeous, according to Rudeus.

Personality

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Background

Born at the western edge of the
King Dragon Realm
 in a village bordering a dense forest. Her parents both apothecaries and taught her how to be one as well before they died due to an Ibri Lizard, while trying to find an Eant Flower, whose petals can cure Ibri disease. They were searching for these plants with the help of
Pham Haindora
's father, a hunter, who wanted to save his wife who had contracted the disease, which has a very high mortality rate after being infected for 10 days. Due to the circumstances of her parents' death, she resented Pham but soon grew extremely close with her and they became best friends.

Plot

Angie and Pham went on an expedition to collect the petals of an Eant Flower to cure the village chief's son,
Dochil
, who has Ibri disease. As they collect the flower petals, they are attacked by the Ibri Lizard that lives near the flowers. At the last moment, they are saved by Rudeus. Rudeus reveals he was sent by a certain person to help her, but doesn't reveal any more details. She falls in love with Rudeus, as he was her knight in shinning armor that she always dreamed about, but after a few attempts to seduce him, Rudeus pulls out Roxy's panties and sniffs and prays to them. This resulted in her infatuation quickly turning to disgust. Before Rudeus parted ways with her, he gave her a
Superd
 race figurine along with a picture book. He tells her to read the book to her future children and to tell them that the Superd race don't need to be feared. She was initially terrified by the figurine, and only stopped herself from getting rid of it because she didn't want to ignore the wishes of the one who saved her life. And after she accidentally popped off the figurines hair, she became less scared as it simply looked like a bald warrior. A few years later, she becomes the second wife to Dochil, who is now the village chief. As requested by Rudeus, she raised her children while reading the picture book to them.

Achievements

Quotes

Trivia