This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

Anne
 officially designated as
Automaton SS-01 Anne
 is the first fully functional automaton made by
Zanoba Shirone
 and
Rudeus Greyrat
.

Appearance

Anne was built to look like
Nanahoshi
 but has shorter black hair and dark black pupils.

Personality

Anne's personality is based on the directives of the three
laws of robotics
: Ensure Human Safety, Obey Commands, and Self Preservation. To ensure Anne follows these directives, Rudeus and Zanoba uses the principle of
Perugius Dola
's
summoning magic
 for his familiars that makes a summoned magic beast loyal to its master no matter how powerful the beast is. But because of disobeying some of these commands, Rudeus believed that Anne was defective and has gone berserk.

Even
Perugius Dola
 is surprised that Anne is more human than his spirits while
Orsted
 is still troubled on how to treat Rudeus' creation and never thought this kind of automaton can be created by humans. He also believes that Anne is the most likely the existence
Chaos
 dreamed of when making dolls, and if he is alive, Chaos would love to join Rudeus and Zanoba on their doll research.

Background

"Awaken, my beloved daughter"

Zanoba saying the activation incantation of Anne

Rudeus
 and
Zanoba
 created Anne with the intent of spreading her appearance when
Shinohara Akito
 is brought into the
Human World
 so once he establishes contact, the automaton can inform him on how to contact Nanahoshi.

Before the creation of Anne, Rudeus and Zanoba has created multiple prototypes at a house in a barren plains that resulted in failures one after another such as
Prototype Unit No. 1
 which looks like a golem. They then created
Prototype Unit No. 2
 which has a body closer to a human but to make its movements close to human they need to balance the change of flesh and avoid tampering the core that could cause the activation to fail.

During their numerous failures, they repeatedly examined the memoirs of Mad Dragon King
Chaos
, asked advice from Perugius and Orsted also gave them rare magic stones and knowledge of many materials they can use as parts for the automaton. After one month of failures and learning from it, they succeeded in activating
Prototype Unit No. 3
 which had no face, so they began to work on
Prototype Unit No. 4
.

Prototype Unit No. 4
 is built with the same specs as
Prototype Unit No. 3
 that has a face with a humanoid body and core that serves as the heart located at the chest. At the suggestion of Rudeus, Zanoba activates Anne by uttering the activation chant and pouring
mana
 to the core from his hand, then Anne awakens and after a self check program, she confirms that Zanoba and Rudeus are her Master and Sub-master respectively.

She is the only automaton of the SS Series Anne with nipples.

Plot

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Power and Abilities

Built with the same materials as the
Magic Armor MK II
 (power and speed potential equivalent to a
Saint Class
 swordsman), made from Rudeus' Earth magic

Equipment

The parts used by Rudeus and Zanoba to create Anne's body are made from following compounds of high class materials for their trial and error that are expensive but possessing exceptional durability and feels extremely close to
Human
 Skin:

Bones were made of material from the Magic Armor and has the same strength and durability

Artificial Flesh made from Rudeus' earth magic clay that is mixed with
Red Dragon
 Scales, Phantom Butterfly, sap of an
Elder Treant
 and
Immortal Demon Race
 Blood.

Joints made of powdered bones of
Skeleton
 Deathbreakers

Achievements

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Quotes

“I do not wish to die, I will fix any problem you might have with me, I wish to be of use, so please don’t kill me, please.”

Trivia

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

References