This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

Information

Story

Relationships

Appearance

Family

Grabell Zafin Asura

Grabell is the the older half-brother of Ariel and leader of the First Prince Faction, main rivals of the
Princess Ariel Faction
 that Ariel leads for her bid for the throne of
Asura Kingdom
.

Sariel Anemoi Asura

Sariel is Ariel's daughter between her and a unknown noble who Ariel proposes an arranged marriage with
Sieghart Saladin Greyrat
 into order to form a strong connection with
Rudeus Greyrat
, her main backer to be queen of Asura Kingdom.

Edward Anemoi Asura

Edward is Ariel's son between her and a unknown noble. When Edward declares that he wishes to marry
Christina Greyrat
, Ariel immediately agrees, much to Rudeus' chagrin

Friends

Luke Notos Greyrat

Luke is Ariel's
Guardian Knight
 where his duty is to protect Ariel and to drive away those who tries to get close to Ariel. After Ariel becomes queen, she names Luke to be the head of the
Notos Family
 and  eventually has 1 child with him outside of marriage (to Luke's sadness).

Rudeus Greyrat

After deciding to leave the Asura Kingdom due to assassinations, Ariel travels to Sharia to recruit allies for her bid to be queen and Rudeus is among the "influential"
adventurers
 that caught her attention after hearing rumors that he killed a
Red Dragon
 alone. When Sylphiette confirms that Rudeus is indeed his childhood friend, she feeds the information to
Jinas Halfas
 to invite Rudeus to
Ranoa Magic Academy
.

Rudeus eventually reunites with Sylphiette with help from Ariel where Rudeus offers to serve Ariel but decides not to use his power.
 After the wedding reception of Rudeus and Sylphiette, Ariel makes Rudeus promise to cherish Sylphiette and she will take her back if he makes Sylphiette unhappy and also tells him that she will eventually return to Asura Kingdom to either become queen or die trying.

Sylphiette Greyrat

Sylphiette was originally Ariel's bodyguard under the name of Fitz. She eventually became a friend that Ariel cared for.

Tristina Purplehorse

Ariel:"Excuse me. Are you by any chance... Tristina Purplehorse?"
Tristina:"Wh... Why do you know that name?"

Ariel first meets Tristina during her 5th birthday party but Tristina has gone missing without a trace some time after. During the journey back to Asura Kingdom, Ariel reunites with Tristina who is now a
Thief
 who tells her that she was kidnapped by Darius and became his sex slave for years but eventually gained her freedom and become part of the Thieves Group. After Ariel swears that Darius will be punished for this, Tristina agrees to help Ariel by guiding her through their smuggling routes undetected by their enemies and by testifying against Darius' crimes that leads to his downfall.
 After Ariel becomes queen, Tristina becomes one of Ariel's attendants but still maintains her contact with the Thieves Group in the event that Ariel needs to broker deals from behind the scenes or equivalent back door jobs.

Other

Lilia Greyrat





Lilia protecting Ariel in the Manga



Lilia was Ariel's Imperial Guard Maid during her childhood and protected Ariel from an assassin and got injured in her leg with poison. Although it poison was treated that allows Lilia to survive, it left her unable to run or stomp again which eventually causes Lilia to be dismissed and left Asura Kingdom.
 When Sylphy tells her that it was Lilia who taught her etiquette, Ariel impression of her improves and while the
Princess Ariel Faction
 insists on getting rid of Sylphy, Ariel insists on having Sylphy stay by her side.

Darius Silva Ganius

Darius is the most influential minister of Asura Kingdom and one of the main backers of Grabell who schemes to assassinate Ariel and orchestrate the downfall of the nobles that supports the Second Princess Faction.

Derrick Redbat





Ariel and Derrick in the Anime



Derrick Redbat was Ariel's previous
Magic Guardian
 and possess a strong sense of duty and loyalty to Ariel who he believes should be the next queen of Asura Kingdom being the last direct descendant of
Kaunis Freean Asura
. But due to numerous assassination attempts on her life, Ariel dismisses this notion and also gets annoyed when Derrick would lecture her about kingship. When the Teleport Incident occurs, a
Terminate Boar
 appears to attack Ariel so Derrick protect Ariel with his body, leaving him mortally wounded. Before his death, Derrick tells his request that Ariel become the queen to which Ariel strived to fulfill his Magic Guardian's final request.

Pilemon Notos Greyrat

Pilemon Notos Greyrat is the head of the Notos Family and supports Princess Ariel in her bid for the throne but after hearing of Ariel's death on her journey to Sharia, he joined the First Prince Faction.
 On Ariel's journey back to Asura Kingdom, soldiers under the command of the Notos Family attacks them, leading Ariel to believe that Pilemon betrayed them.

Perugius Dola






Ariel and Perugius in the Light Novel



Ariel:"If my ideals are so vastly different from yours, then I think your aid would be more of a hindrance than help."
Perugius:"Well spoken, Ariel Anemoi Asura! You have made your conviction clear."

Due to Perugius' being a hero during the
Laplace Wars
, his influence in the Asura Kingdom is equal of a king and Ariel who wishes to be Queen of Asura needs his backing where Perugius questions Ariel what is the characteristics of a true king.
 Ariel eventually find the answers and through Perugius' influence and backing, the nobility recognizes Ariel to be the next Queen of Asura Kingdom and Perugius also left one of his familiars in the Silver Palace as proof of his backing of Ariel.

Orsted

Orsted:"You're not concerned I might betray you in the end?"
Ariel:"I'm not foolish enough to throw away my opportunities to avoid all risks."

After Rudeus becomes a subordinate of Orsted, Ariel is also informed of this development that would lead to the mission to make Ariel the next Queen of Asura Kingdom. At Orsted's suggestion, Rudeus brings Ariel to the
Library Labyrinth
 to find the answers of Perugius' question and is able to gain their support that Ariel considers to be way too convenient for its timing. During the journey back to Asura Kingdom, Ariel requests Rudeus that she wishes to speak to Orsted and despite being affected by Orsted's
curse
, Ariel voluntarily becomes Orsted's subordinate after hearing his reasons on helping her and works together with Rudeus to accomplish his plan.

--To be added

Isolte Cruel

Doga

References