This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

Information

Story

Relationships

Appearance

"It's all well and good if the others don't know about this. Even if I sold my soul to the devil, it's impossible to complain if no one knew. I will do anything to win. The stronger the allies, the better."

Ariel before becoming
Orsted
's subordinate

Ariel Anemoi Asura
 (
アリエル
・
アネモイ
・
アスラ
)
 is the second princess of the
Asura Kingdom
.

Appearance

Ariel has long blonde hair with blue eyes and a very attractive face. She is of average height, has a pale complexion and moderate-sized bust. She is regarded as the most beautiful princess ever lived,
 and Rudeus noted her as "objectively the most pretty female" he knows.

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Personality

Ariel is a charismatic person who tries her best to create an image of a leader in order to obtain the throne. By nature she is diligent, sociable, and willing to work hard to improve herself. But due to the trauma of being the target of assassinations she became manipulative, sadistic/masochistic and also inherited the depravities of some nobles of Asura Kingdom.

In front of nobles and the connections that she needed to ascend the throne, she seldom says selfish things and always knows how to be politically correct, even when she was young.

Background






Ariel being protected by Lilia from assassins



Ariel is as the second princess of the Asura Kingdom where she inherited the lovely features and shining golden hair from her mother the queen consort, a famous beauty; from her father, the king of Asura Kingdom, she inherited a peerless beautiful voice. Since her childhood, Ariel already possess an overpowering charisma where the majority of Asura Kingdom's residents already sees her as the most beautiful princess who have ever lived and as the daughter of the queen consort, her supporters consider her the legitimate heir to the throne but also makes her the target for assassination.

As 2nd princess and 3rd in line for the throne, Ariel's childhood was flooded with assassination attempts by her older brothers, and at one point
Lilia
 managed to save her from one of those assassination attempts, Ariel started to become sadistic and tends to release those sadistic urges by beating and or torturing her subordinate. Ariel would spend her time on the "White Lily Garden" and talk about their conquest and other indulgences with Luke, her
Guardian Knight
 while
Derrick Redbat
 her
Guardian Magician
 would lecture her about kingship and persistently urge her to become queen of Asura, much to her annoyance.






Ariel and Derrick saved by Sylphiette



When a
Terminate Boar
 appears in the White Lily Garden due to the
Teleport Incident
, Derrick protects Ariel at the cost of his life. In tears, Ariel hears Derrick's final request that she become queen and resolves to fulfill his dying request, just as
Sylphiette
 falls from the sky and kills the terminate boar and after a brief talk, Sylphiette collapses in exhaustion and depleting her
Mana
.

Ariel sees to Syphiette's recovery and despite the
Princess Ariel Faction
 wanting to dispose of Sylphiette for suspicion that she might be an enemy, Ariel insists that she become her new Magic Guardian after Derrick, giving her magic items and a makeover needed for her new life as Silent Fitts for his ability to use
Voiceless Incantation
. One night, Ariel succumb to her sadistic nature and attack Fitts. Aware of the "night workings" that goes on in the Silver Palace from Lilia, Fitts retaliates in a half dazed state with her
magic
 that nearly killed Ariel. While Fitts is
healing
 her, Ariel finds being tormented to be surprisingly pleasant.

As months pass, Ariel is protected by Fitts from assassins sent by
Darius Silva Ganius
 who supports Prince
Grabell Zafin Asura
's faction and the two become friends. The assassinations persisted that
Pilemon Notos Greyrat
 advise that Ariel leave the Asura Kingdom in guise of studying abroad so Ariel dismisses Fitts from her duty as Magic Guardian but Fitts refuses to the joy of Ariel and they leave the Asura Kingdom together with
Luke
 along with 15 escorts of knights, nobles and servants. On their journey to Ranoa, they are repeatedly ambushed but Fitts fought them off and by the time they reach Ranoa's capital Sharia, only 5 of them are left: Ariel, Fitts, Luke and the servants Elmore Bluewolf and Kleene Elrond.






Ariel planning to ally with Rudeus



Ariel and her group are accepted into the
Ranoa Magic Academy
 as refugees of royalty where Fitts is accepted as a Special Student but Ariel refuses such treatment to be with the regular students and her group would eventually defeat
Pursena Adoldia
 and
Linia Dedoldia
. This enables her to become the president of the Student Council as a mere 2nd year and from there she plans her return to the Asura Kingdom to become queen. On Ariel's search for allies, she comes into the information of "Rudeus of the Quagmire" and Fitts confirm that he is her childhood friend from
Buena Village
. Although Luke scoffs at the rumors surrounding Rudeus, like killing a rogue red dragon alone, becoming a Water Saint at age 5, as being fantastically ludicrous, Fitts confirms what she knows about Rudeus, and gives him a glowing endorsement. Ariel then leaks the information to Vice Principal
Jinas Halfas
 who sends the invitation letter to Rudeus to study at the Ranoa Magic Academy.

On their journey back to the Asura Kingdom, Ariel tells
Rudeus Greyrat
 that she wants to speak with
Orsted
. Despite feeling the effects of Orsted's curse, Ariel also become Orsted's subordinate after Orsted reveals his reasons on why he wants her to become queen.

Power and Abilities

When Ariel was in her 4th year at the
Ranoa Magic Academy
 she was taking a melding magic class.
 This was considered a difficult class in Ranoa. For the sake of her charisma, she maintained good grades with the help of
Sylphy
 who tutored her and
Luke
.

Equipment

『Illusionary Ring』








A
magic tool
 that allows the user to take the shape of another, This magic tool took the form of two rings: a green ring, and a red ring.

The person wearing the green ring would become identical in facial features and hair color to the person wearing the red ring
,
 this magic tool don't change, height, build, voice, and the eyes colors.

This magic tool was meant to be worn by the body-double of the Asura Kingdom, but commonly Ariel used they to take the form of Fitts to explore more freely Asura or Sharia.

This magic tool was a secret treasure passed down in the Asura Kingdom family from generation to generation.

Achievements

After centuries, she is the second ruler of Asura that receives
Perugius
' backing after
Kaunis Freean Asura
.

She becomes the next queen of Asura.

Quotes

Ariel:
 "Luke. You, the playboy, unable to endure your sudden urge, hugged me and groped my body."

Luke
:
".....?"

Ariel:
"Originally it is an act that is not allowed, but given that I was also horny, I'll forgive you."

Ariel:
 "Just one thing, Luke."

Luke:
 "...?"

Ariel:
 "I am your princess."

Trivia

Her middle name, Anemoi, is the name of a
group of Greek wind deities
, each of whom were named after a direction. Furthermore, the 4 main families of Asura (Boreas, Notus, Zephyrus and Eurus) all have names derived from members of the Anemoi.

In the Web Novel, she was attacked by Sylphy when she tried to sexually assault her, awakening her masochistic side. This part was omitted in the Light Novel.

In the manga side story, it is described that Ariel gets aroused from unexpected public embarrassment, which is the reason that she has the tendency of collecting things that would be embarrassing if found by others.

Also the reason that she got aroused when she wetted herself in
Orsted's
 presence
.

Ariel did not marry after her coronation, but has a harem of men including Luke and had 5 children as result, all from different fathers.

She is one of the
ORSTED Corp.
 member.

Ariel is very eager to set a marriage between Rudeus's child with the Asura Royal Family to deepen their relation.

Edward
 may be Luke's son, because Rudeus feels a Ikemen vibe just like Luke. If this is true, the old fate between
Eris
/Luke is now between Edward/
Christina
.

Reference

Navigation

Ranoa Magic Academy

Principal

Georg

Vice Principal

Jinas Halfas

Teachers

Roxy Migurdia
 •
Badigadi

Student Council

Ariel Anemoi Asura
 •
Norn Greyrat
 •
Luke Notos Greyrat
 •
Fitz

Special Student

Rudeus Greyrat
 •
Rinia Dedorudia
 •
Pursena Adorudia
 •
Zanoba Shirone
 •
Cliff Grimoire
 •
Silent Seven Star