This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

"The policies made by you two after you become king are different.
Grabell
 will head down the path of weapon development and you will pour resources into military magic development. If you rely on military power, Asura Kingdom will fall. In the case of relying on magic, Asura Kingdom will survive. "

Orsted
 to
Ariel Anemoi Asura





Emblem of the Asura Kingdom displayed in their banners



The
Asura Kingdom
 is a
human
 kingdom holding the world's greatest national power located in the western area of the
Central Continent
 and is one of the most abundant and richest regions in the world as such, becoming king of the Asura Kingdom is the same as becoming the richest person in the world.
 The bountiful resources found in this region and relatively very few
monsters
 showing up makes the Asura Kingdom thrive with people. Asura, however, it is a hard place to make a living for adventurers; knights are dispatched regularly in order to exterminate monsters across towns and villages, hence very few extermination quests are put up. The capital Ars, named after a war hero of the human-race, is the largest city in the world.

Territory

King's Region

Region Lord : Asura Family

Region that governs the kingdom. Population density is high, gathering of goods takes place within the Asura kingdom.
In addition, for the sake of commerce with
Begaritt Continent
, glasswork, etc. are also being sold.

Ars





The Silver Palace in Ars, Asura Kingdom's Seat of Power in the Manga



The Capital of the Asura Kingdom. Named after a hero who led his comrades in the First Great Human-Demon War to victory, it is also the largest city in the world. The headquarters of the
Water God Sword Style
 is also located on Ars where knights undergo training.

High up on the top of a hill sits a majestic castle, the Silver Palace. Surrounding the palace are the huge mansions belonging to the higher nobles. Boulevards extend out of the surrounding city wall. Ars also has a huge coliseum, a gorgeous training ground for knights, beautiful temples for the Saint Milis religion, an aqueduct system that spread throughout the city and headquarters to the world's largest trading companies.

Fittoa Region






Boreas Family Emblem in the Manga



Region Lord : Boreas Family

It was famous as the land of perfume but after the
Teleport Incident
, almost the entire area vanished.

Citadel of Roa

The capital of the Fittoa Region, is a fortified city that have sturdy walls of seven/ eight meters and was the last bastion of defense in the wars against the demon race.

Buena Village

A countryside village, Paul Greyrat was in charge as a knight.

Milbots Region






Notos Family Emblem in the Manga



Region Lord : Notos Family

Famous as the land of alcohol and has a gigantic brewing site. Although beer is a regular commodity in the Asura Kingdom, most of the wine consumed in celebrations are produced in Milbots.

Donati Region

Region Lord : Zephirus Family

Famous for sugar and knitting wool. The export of arms for the northern adventurers and mercenaries is carried out as well.

Wishiru Region

Region Lord : Eurus Family

Though there is no special mention of it's local specialty, the circulation of money or goods is prosperous because it is a doorway for the merchants that come from the south.

Population

Asura Kingdom population is comprised mostly by Humans.

Royal Family






Unnamed King of Asura Kingdom



Asura Kingdom is ruled by an unnamed king and his heirs are scheming against each other on who will succeed him to the throne by gathering support from the kingdom's nobility. Currently the Boreas Family and
Darius Silva Ganius
 supports Grabell's Faction while the Eurus and Zephirus Family supports Halfaus' faction and the Notos Family supports Ariel's faction.

Kaunis Freean Asura

Ariel Anemoi Asura

Grabell Zafin Asura

Halfaus Asura

Nobles

The nobles are the families that served the Asura Kingdom for eons.
 Many of the prominent noble family names follow the color + animal etymology. For example:

Greyrat

Redbat

Bluewolf

Purplehorse

Whitespider

Silvertoad

Yellowsnake

Currency






An Asura Gold Coin



Asura Gold Coin (100,000 yen = 1,000 USD)

Asura Silver Coin (10,000 yen = 100 USD)

Asura Large Copper Coin (1,000 yen = 10 USD)

Asura Copper Coin = (100 yen = 1 USD)

Trivia

The surname of the royal family of Asura, Anemoi is based in the Greek:
Ἄνεμοι
, that means "Winds".

The surname of the four noble Greyrat house of Asura, Boreas, Notus, Eurus and Zephirus, is based in the four chief gods of the Anemoi.

Reference