Information

Story

Relationships

Appearance

Atoferatofe Raibaku
 (
アトーフェラトーフェ・ライバック
,

Atōferatōfe Raibaku
)
 or
Atofe
 (
アトーフェ
,

Atōfe
)
 is a Demon Lord on the
Demon Continent
. She is a part of the Immortal Demon Clan, and she is said to be the Demon Lord who grants strength.

Appearance

According to
Rudeus
, Atofe has the appearance resembling stereotypical demons the most among people he had met. She has blue skin, white hair, crimson eyes, a pair of bat wings and a large horn protruding from her forehead. Atofe is described to be of average height for a mature woman, being a little shorter than Rudeus.

Her outfit appears both stylish and battle-hardened. Her armor is covered in scratches, and any decorative elements had long been ripped off. She also carries an enormous sword with an extravagant sheath
.

Personality

Atofe's personality is similar to
Eris
', but taken to logical extreme. She is incredibly dumb and aggressive, unable to comprehend even simple statements and would start a fight in a drop of hat. Despite her critical lack of intelligence, she actually hates being called stupid or being implied so, that she would fly into rage when that happens. She's also described to be loose with time, such that having arrived to an audience a day late in her own castle is a common sight.

While described as aggressive, the fact that her soldiers are quite uninhibited and reasonable instead of strict and stiff goes to say that she's not insufferable. She would honor powerful individuals who defeat her in a fair fight and stick to her promise.

She has habit of not taking her opponents seriously as she would take any hit head on, even though she can dodge or block the attack because she would just regenerate shortly after. However when she admits defeat, she becomes calmer and more willing to listen to the person that defeated her.

It should be noted that she was quite docile when reprimanded by her son
Kalman II
.

Background

She is on bad terms with
Perugius Dola
. She was also the Wife of the first North God and the mother and teacher of the Second North God. The current Death God
Randolph
 is also one of her descendants.

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Power and Abilities

Immortality
 – She will regenerate even after losing a head or being cut into two.

She was taught by the first North God, her husband
Kalman I
, and is an incredibly powerful person. She later taught the second North God, her son
Kalman II
.

Even before being taught
North God Style
, she had already been a force to be reckoned with, taking a Dragon God or North God to subdue her. However, her lack of intelligence is baffling, truly a person of "all brawn and no brain."

She has enough reflex to block the Longsword of Light -- Eris was able to cut only half of her neck before Atofe blocked and disabled Eris by piercing through her shoulder. Later she defeated Eris in hand-to-hand combat even though she was drunk.

Equipment

Achievements

Quotes

Atofe to Rudeus:
 "Okay, now let's duel!"

Trivia

Atofe has a habit of kidnapping strong people she has an interest in, and forcing them to work as her personal guards with 2 years of break after every 10 years.

Only two people have ever defeated Atofe singlehandedly and earned her respect, the first one is Kalman I and the second is
Rudeus Greyrat
.

Atofe's strength and ferocity is infamous even among Demon Lords, such that after Rudeus defeated her and was given the hero title, the other Demon Lords actually begs for his mercy upon meeting him.