"No, It is fine. It’s easier said than done. Besides, if Auber is determined to escape, then he cannot be killed."

Orsted

Auber Corvette
 is one of the
Three Swords of the North God
, known as
"Peacock Sword" Auber
.

Appearance

Auber is an eccentric man with red eyes wearing a rainbow-colored coat, knee-length shorts, and four swords at his hip. He also seems to wear perfume with a citrusy smell. He has a peacock tattoo on his cheek and his grey hair is styled in the shape of a dish antenna.

Personality

Auber is a pragmatic swordsman that's not afraid to fight dirty. He prefers ambushing his opponent and killing them when their guard is down. He also will not hesitate to retreat when the battle is not going his way
.

In the non-canon Re:Zero collaboration short story, it is shown that he is friendly and helpful.

Background





Auber sensing Eris' bloodlust



Sword God
Gal Farion
, called him to the Holy Land of Sword to help with
Eris
' training. On their first meeting, Eris battles him and releases an enormous amount of bloodlust that Auber felt a chill on his spine and feels that he is facing a beast he needs to kill until they are stopped by Gal.

Plot





Auber using his flame attack against Eris, and Rudeus using his Water Wall spell to protect her.



Took part in three separate assassination attempts on
Ariel Anemoi Asura
, all of which were stopped by
Rudeus Greyrat
.

In the first, after patiently waiting for his chance to kill Rudeus the second he cast his magic, he rushed in to attack but was surprised to see that Rudeus turned around just in time to see him face to face. After a few words, Auber rushed towards Rudeus and with his immense speed along with Rudeus' surprise at suddenly facing Auber, Rudeus' only option to defend was to launch the
Zaliff Gauntlet
 towards Auber. With his surprise attack being ineffective, he made the quick decision to flee just as
Ghislaine Dedoldia
 was about to catch up with Rudeus. During his escape he was able to dodge a
Stone Cannon
 from behind without even looking, spit out oil on his flaming sword to create a flamethrower like effect, and use his magic cloaks to swap locations with a log wearing the matching cloak to avoid being struck down by Eris.

In the second attempt, he was hidden on the side of a wall with a cloth perfectly matching the color of the wall to allow him to be well camouflaged as long as only a minimum of light was near him. Rudeus knew to expect him to be well hidden and sent out his
lamplight spirit
 to find him, which he was eventually able to do. Immediately after finding him, Rudeus sent out a maximum powered and maximum speed Stone Cannon, which Auber was somehow able to sense and avoid instant death, but it did take a chunk out of his leg. This caused him to fall from the wall, and even with his maimed leg, he was able to roll once he landed and take no damage. Rudeus launched another Stone Cannon at him after he landed, but he was easily able to deflect it, and once Luke rushed in and was about to take a fatal strike from his blade, Auber was able to dodge out of the way of another of Rudeus' Stone Cannons. At this point Auber's companion
Nuckelgard
 was killed by Eris, and
Wii Taa
 was badly injured by Ghislaine, but was able to flee by throwing a smoke bomb that launches extremely thick black smoke everywhere. With this distraction Auber was once again able to flee from defeat and be fully healed before his final attempt on Ariel's life.

In the final attempt, Auber acted as the bodyguard of
Darius
 at the party Ariel hosted where all the major nobles and important figures for the
Asura Kingdom
's throne were assembled. There was some light banter with Rudeus where he 'apologized' for all the cowardly attempts on Ariel's life, even though he himself was the one leading all of them, and eventually the party got under way. In the middle of the party, however,
Reida Reia
 burst in, and used her secret
Water God
 art to prevent anyone from moving a single muscle. At this point Auber was instructed by Reida to kill Ariel and Rudeus, but due to some hesitation on Auber's part,
Orsted
 had enough time to rush to the scene and kill Reida, who before engaging in combat with Orsted instructed Auber to flee with Darius and guarantee Darius' safety above all else. Ariel then instructed Rudeus, Eris, and Ghislaine to go after Auber and Darius once everyone was able to move again. The three were able to catch up to Auber since he was carrying such a heavy load, and engaged in a three on one fight against him in a room near the King's residence. After initial negotiations broke down with Darius, Eris and Ghislaine launched towards Auber, who used his Crimson Ink technique to glue them to the ground. Rudeus was quickly able to destroy the adhesive but the group lost the initiative in the fight which allowed Auber to go directly towards Rudeus. After a brief engagement with Rudeus, he was able to nearly cut off Rudeus' left leg with a strike to his shin, and was able to hit Eris was a poison coated dagger hidden behind a Fireball shot by Darius. Rudeus then launched a Burst Stone Cannon towards Darius, which Auber was able to cut in half, though the unique nature of the spell allowed it to explode next to Darius and cause him some damage. This surprised Auber, and in this moment Eris launched a
Longsword of Light
 that Auber was was amazingly able to mostly block using the thick part of his blade causing only a shallow cut on his arm, thanks to the poison in Eris' system. Ghislaine followed up immediately with her own sword of light, which sliced through his flank and killed him.

Power and Abilities





Auber preparing to attack in the Manga



Auber is an extremely skilled swordsman who can dual wield his swords to parry an attack then retaliate at their blind side, Auber also uses camouflage to mask his presence and strike his opponents from behind the instant they are distracted. He carries an arsenal of equipment with him which he expertly uses to distract, evade, and counter his opponents with. He was confident that he could defeat both
Eris
 and
Ghyslaine
 in combat simultaneously.

North
 Emperor

Known named skills:

Crimson Ink - a trap technique involving red balls that explode on contact spreading an extremely strong instant adhesive

Nebulous Cross - a quick dual slash using weapons in both of his hands.

Equipment






Auber Dual Wielding Swords in the Manga



In combat he uses a large variety of tools and equipment such as:

Swords

Auber carries at least four different swords that he sheathe at his hip, one of which is able to burst into flames after reciting an incantation. When dual-wielding Auber uses a long sword on his main hand and a curved short sword for parrying attacks for his off-hand that he can also fight with using reverse grip style
.

Tear gas pouch, which causes opponents who get it on their face to sneeze uncontrollably and is especially effective on beastmen.

Magic cloaks that are able to swap the positions of whatever is wearing them. He uses logs as a medium for his Substitute Art to evade fatal attacks, allowing whatever is wearing the green and brown coats to instantaneously swap places.

Pouch of oil, which he places in his mouth and spits on his sword after using an incantation allowing his sword to burst into flames to create an effect similar to a short duration flamethrower.

Metallic claws that can be used to quickly scale large vertical walls made of stone. It is likely these same claws that he attaches to the end of a rope, which he can throw to allow himself to retrieve items from a distance, such as the cloak he uses to swap places after he has done so.

Small red balls that contain an extremely powerful instant adhesive made by a master apothecary that can only be created using a very complicated process. When a strong shock occurred, they would explode and spray their contents in every direction. The adhesive can be completely nullified using water.

Kunai-like daggers that are covered in poison which he is capable of throwing with extreme precision.

Non-fatal poison and the antidote to the poison. The poison causes those hit by it to have dulled movements, and causes the affected area to become bright purple. The poison is strong enough to be unaffected by beginner and intermediate
Detoxification magic
.

Achievements

Quotes

To Rudeus: "A man who could tame that
beast
, would be a praiseworthy man. Really, like the rumor said.......even
his arm can fly
.”

To Ghislaine moments before death: "Splendidly done."

Trivia

Rudeus
 once noted that Auber was very much like a ninja and wonders if he should try to imitate him
.

He appears in
Volume 9
 of the manga in the short story collaboration with Re:ZERO, helping the protagonist Natsuki Subaru.

Eris noted that she had never blocked Auber's Nebulus Cross technique, which Rudeus was able to on his first encounter with it.

Some practitioners of North God Style views Auber's group to be a wacky faction
 .

Reference