Information

Chronology

Badigadi makes his official appearance in Web Novel Volume 6 when he decides to travel to the Central Continent with
Elinalize
 to search for Rudeus.

Later Badigadi traveled to Ranoa Magic Academy with the intention of challenging
Rudeus
, saying that after hearing about him from
Kishirika
 he got 'jealous'. When he arrived he saw Beast Men lined up outside library wanting to challenge Rudeus as well and telling him to wait for his turn. Having no desire to wait he asked if there is any way he can get further ahead, rather than standing in the long queue. Then one of them said "If you don't want to wait in order then you should try to defeat us". He took their challenge and defeated them effortlessly, when Rudeus walked out looking stunned at the scene before him. Seeing no way out of the challenge the demon lord issued out, he accepted and the two made their way to the court yard with the academy students and staff watching. Badigadi agreed to wait while Fitts retrieved Rudeus' staff. During that time Rudeus had hoped to talk his way out of the duel, but to no avail.

After Fitts gave him his staff, Rudeus mentioned that he had fought
Orsted
 and scratched him in the fight. This intrigued Badigadi so he came up with some conditions for their duel. He told Rudeus to hit him with his strongest magic and if he could injure him it would be Rudeus' win, if he could not then Badigadi would counter with just one hit. So Rudeus hit him with his strongest rock bullet and as a result the whole top half of Badigadi's body exploded, his six arms were disassembled and due to impact his lower body went flying several meters. It took few seconds for Rudeus to realize what just happened as he was afraid that he just killed him when he was supposed to be immortal. Then Badigadi began laughing excitedly as he put himself back together expressing how he thought he was going to die and declaring Rudeus the winner. Despite that he still felt like hitting Rudeus, so he punched him with 3 arms at once before Rudeus could react, knocking him out.

Later he enrolled into the academy as a special student much to the shock of everyone, but after a while, he mysteriously left without a word to unknown parts after encountering
Ruijerd Superdia
 at Rudeus's home.

He returned in volume 23 wearing the Fighting God armor and declaring himself a sworn friend and apostle of
Hitogami
. Badigadi as Fighting God was vastly powerful and was able to overpower combined efforts of Rudeus and allies but ultimately got defeated. Even though he says that he only agreed to help
Human God
 'once', it was decided that he is to be sealed in a God-Class barrier (with his consciousness still intact) until Human God is destroyed. Badigadi himself thinks that is for the best.