This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

Information

Chronology

Demon King of Immortality,
Badigadi
 (
バーディガーディ
,

Badigadi
)
, also known as Badigadi the Immortal is a member of the
Immortal Demon Clan
 and
Kishirika's
 fiancé as well as the former
Fighting God
. First mentioned by his fiancé, he debuts when he travels to
Ranoa Magic Academy
 to challenge
Rudeus
 after hearing tales of him, and joins the school afterward as a Special Student.

SPOILER ALERT!

This page contains
spoilers!
  Read at your own risk.

Appearance

Badigadi is described to be incredibly tall, with 6 muscular arms (where it is usually seen that the top pair is folded on his chest, the middle pair stretched out as if he is flexing, and the bottom pair is holding onto his hips) violet hair and a jet black (black-purple in the anime) skin that changes color to brown when he's drunk.

Personality






Badigadi usually seen laughing in the Anime



Badigadi is a carefree and boisterous person who likes to laugh a lot. According to him, his ideal life is one of endless wandering, dueling strong men and "holding" beautiful women without a care for anything else, including wars and power ranking. This is seen when he battled the
Beast Race
 suitors at
Ranoa Magic Academy
 but did not kill any of them. He is also whimsical and simple, but still wise enough to provide valuable wisdom to people around him. He cares about his subordinates and loved ones so much that he becomes serious when it comes to them.

He holds his own personal value firm and would repay any perceived benefits granted to him, even to someone as nefarious as Hitogami.

Background

After the generation of Demon Kings who served the First Demon God, several factions of Demon Kings have risen in the
Human World
, especially those who are warlike and aggressive. Those Demon Kings were eventually exterminated in the Laplace War. The remaining Demon King Factions were from the moderate faction where Badigadi is said to belong to.  They were peaceful or cautious by nature and mostly never got involved in conflicts.  They chose to stay in the
Demon Continent,
 ruling their own region or city.  Such has been the "basic rule" and norm since the end of the Laplace Wars.

Badigadi is the younger brother of
Atoferatofe Rybak
 and son of
Necross Lacross
 who is one of the 8 Demon Kings that served the First Demon God during the
Six-Faced World
 world era. Badigadi has lived since before the
Laplace war
, which makes him one of the oldest beings in the series. In order to protect
Kishirika
, Badigadi was tricked by
Hitogami
 into stealing the
Golden Armor
 and became the Fighting God, who fought and split second generation Dragon God
Laplace
 into the Demon God and Technique God.

Thinking that Hitogami was helping him, he agrees to help Hitogami 'once' in the future as a favor.

Plot

Badigadi took interest on Rudeus when his fiance Kishirika mentions how amazing that child is because of his
unusually high mana capacity
 and Badigadi wants to see him while openly admitting that he is jealous of Kishirika's attitude towards Rudeus. After deciding on splitting the group, Badigadi accompanies
Elinalise Dragonroad
 to inform Rudeus on the location of his mother
Zenith Greyrat
 who has been missing since the
Teleport Incident
.

Unfortunately, he later becomes one of the final antagonists of the series, after it is revealed that he is one of
Hitogami's
 apostles.

Power and Abilities

Immortality






Badigadi regenerating his body in the Anime



Being one of the Immortal Demon Clans, even if Badigadi's body is destroyed by
Rudeus
, he can regenerate it almost instantly. However, depending on how much damage he sustained, it can result in having a smaller body that grows back over time.

Battle Aura

Badigadi is able to protect his body by reinforcing it using
mana
, thus only a king or higher ranked attack can damage him. Saint-ranked
Nina
 was able to somewhat damage him using
Longsword of Light
, but ended up bending her sword in the process.

Demon Eye
 Immunity

Demon Eyes don't work against Badigadi due to him taking an unknown drug that he found in an old dragon ruin thanks to Hitogami.

Equipment

Fighting God Armor

Achievements

Defeating the Dragon God Laplace

Easily defeating a saint ranked Nina alongside multiple beastman challengers

Quotes

Kishirika:
 “Hahahaha! Well then, let’s see each other again, Badi! When you want to see me again, return to the Demon Continent!”

Badigadi:
 “Indeed, and stay in good health as well, my betrothed! We’ll eventually meet again! Ahahaha!”

Kishirika:
 “Who knows how many years it will be until the next time, though! Bwaahaha!”

Sandor:
 "Great Uncle, why were you here?"

Badigadi:
 "Isn't it obvious?!" It is because the Great I, am an apostle of Hitogami!"

Badigadi:
 "Young Dragon God, I pray that someday your curse is lifted.

Badigadi:
“Children are something excellent. Even The Great I want to create some with Kishirika.
”

Trivia

4200 years ago, he became the Fighting God, third rank of the
Seven Major World Powers
, wearing the Fighting God Armor to protect
his fiancee
 by the suggestion of
Hitogami
.

He killed
Kishirika
 when he lost his reasoning due to using the Fighting God Armor.

He's a contradicting person who both helps
Hitogami
 and warns people not to trust him at the same time.

Badigadi gave one of his arms to the Magic Guild for research in immortality
.

He had sex with Elinalise.

References

Navigation

Ranoa Magic Academy

Principal

Georg

Vice Principal

Jinas Halfas

Teachers

Roxy Migurdia
 •
Badigadi

Student Council

Ariel Anemoi Asura
 •
Norn Greyrat
 •
Luke Notos Greyrat
 •
Fitz

Special Student

Rudeus Greyrat
 •
Rinia Dedorudia
 •
Pursena Adorudia
 •
Zanoba Shirone
 •
Cliff Grimoire
 •
Silent Seven Star