Battle Aura
 (
闘気
,

Tōki
, lit. "Fighting Spirit")
 is a technique used to amplify physical capabilities of the individual to the extreme.

Overview

Battle Aura, in essence, is a form of
Mana
 manipulation, but different from the flashy effects of
Magic
 invocation as it is invisible to the naked eye. It is specifically used as a technique to explosively boost physical power and physical defence. It involves coating the whole body or a specific body part in Mana and forming a mantle of dense energy.

It does not have a specific training regime, an individual will naturally come to understand how to wear
Touki
 the more they train their body. In the case with Rudeus, he is unable to manifest
Touki
 due to the effect of the Laplace factor he inherited. This is attributed to the Laplace factor as Laplace was also unable to use
Touki
, but some, such as
Sylphy
, are able to.

All swordsmen and fighters at or above Saint-class are able to wear Battle Aura. Some use it subconsciously as to why they cannot explain their impermanent outbursts of strength during battle.

Employment

Offense


https://mushokutensei.fandom.com/wiki/File:MT-AN-S1-E02-WEBM-01.webm



Paul's Battle Aura applied on a Wooden Sword



Battle Aura is typically used by all swordsmen. Wearing Battle Aura is woven into the art of swordsmanship, it worked to improve one's physical prowess and strengthening the blade of the sword itself. Swordsmen whose Battle Aura has been fully developed are able to cleave boulders in a single stroke, or unleash a flash of the blade to strike a distant foe.

Other than swordsmen, Warriors, Knights, and martial arts practitioners also wear Battle Aura to enhance their weapons' durability and physical attack.

Defense

Instinctively, swordsmen and fighters sheathe themselves in a protective veil of Battle Aura around the user's body or a specific body part. When mastered, the veil of Battle Aura can become impenetrable to most physical attacks.
It also greatly elevates one's sense of the battlefield.

Special Type

Dragon Battle Aura

Dragon Battle Aura
 (
龍闘気
,

Ryū tōki
, lit. "Dragon Fighting Spirit)
 is taught by the
First Dragon God
 during the time when the
Dragon Tribe
 were struggling in the Dragon World against the larger dragon predators which allows its user to multiply their physical abilities many-folds and harden their skin, that is strong enough to pierce the toughest dragon's hide in 1 blow. Although the power itself is possessed by other races, the Dragon Battle Aura is far superior to the others which allows the Dragon Tribe to be the most powerful in the Dragon World.

Saint Dragon Battle Aura


https://mushokutensei.fandom.com/wiki/File:MT-AN-S1-E08-WEBM-01.webm



Orsted's Saint Dragon Battle Aura protecting him and his immediate area



Saint Dragon Battle Aura
 (
龍聖闘気
,

Ryūshō Tōki
, lit. "Dragon Saint Fighting Spirit)
 is the greatest combat technique of the Dragon Tribe created by the
Dragon God Urupen
.
It is a style that uses relatively less
Mana
, and boasts an overwhelming defensive power that only attacks of very high caliber are able to leave an effect on the user.

Trivia

Demon God
Laplace
 was one who was unable to wear Battle Aura.

Most of those born with the
Laplace Factor
 are inherently unable to wear Battle Aura, and it tends to be weak even for those who can.

Known Users

Orsted

Paul Greyrat

Badigadi

Ghislaine Dedoldia

Eris Boreas Greyrat

Gal Farion

Nina Farion

Jino Britts

Reida Reia

Isolte Cruel

Kalman II

Kalman III

Auber Corvette

Doga

First Dragon God

Dragon Tribe

References