This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!





Beast Race in the Anime



Beast Race
 (兽族, Juuzoku) is a multi tribe race that originally lives in the Beast World and ruled by the Beast God until the destruction of their world where they live in the Great Forest in the Milis Continent of the Human World.

Appearance

Most of the Beast Race share similarities with the
Human
 Race in terms of having a humanoid form, 2 arms and 2 legs but they have a diagonal hairline where humans have ears while the Beast Race's ears are located on their head and a tail at their lower back. Depending on the Tribe the ears can be further at the side.

Background

Six-Faced World
 Era

The Beast Race are the main race that dwells in the
Beast World
, a world where huge rorests grow endlessly and mountains are connected during the
Six-Faced World
 Era and is ruled by the First Beast God
Pudoria Dordia
.

After the summit of the Gods, the
Beast Race
 teaches how to tame ferocious beasts to the other races and with the knowledge taught by the Human Race from words and letters to communal living and forming a social order, the Beast Race begins to thrive.

When the
First Dragon God
 invades the Beast World, he demands that the Beast Race who had an army of 10,000 troops to bring out
Lunaria
's killer to which the Beast God insists that they do not know and the fight begins. The battle against the Beast Race troops and the 5 Dragon Generals lasted for 3 days and 3 nights while the First Dragon God and Beast God battled. On the fourth day, the First Dragon God defeats the Beast God by splitting him in 2 and slamming him to the ground which causes the Beast Race to be imprinted with fear and hatred of the
Dragon Tribe
 while the destruction of the Beast World begins and at least 90% of the Beast Race died.

Age of Chaos

Around 8,000 - 10,000 years ago after the destruction of the Beast World, the surviving Beast Race were brought to the
Human World
 by the
Human God
 but the ancestors of the Human Race enters a war with the other
Races
 and after years of fighting, each race agreed to settle on their territory that closely resembles their home world thus, the Beast Race settles at the area of the Grand Continent that is full of vast trees in what will be called the Great Forest.

Second Human-Demon War





Beast God Giger in the Manga



With the humans winning the First Human-Demon Wars, they treated the demon race like slaves and grew arrogant to even go to war against anyone whether its their fellow humans, other races and even the Beast Race was no exception. In response, Beast God
Giger
 of the Doldia Tribe rallied the tribes of the Beast Race and battles the human army with a combination of power and wit to rescue the other Beast Race Tribes while defending the Great Forest and eventually defeats the Humans. For his victory, The Doldia Tribe is revered as the chief of the Beast Race who are also the guardian of the
Sacred Beast
 and even after Giger's death, this continued for generations.

When
Kishirika Kishirisu
 reincarnates and starts the second war, the Beast Race allied with the Demon Race and together with the Ocean Race, they managed to push to Humans to a corner but no decisive victory has been made until the Golden Knight
Aldebaran
 sides with the Humans and pushes the allied races that resulted in the death of 10,000 of their troops single handedly done by Aldebaran. In the final battle of the war between the
Fighting God
 and Aldebaran, this resulted in a huge explosion that caused the Grand Continent to be split into several continents which also effectively ends the second war since the continents are now separated by the
Ringus Sea
 with the Beast Race still occupying the Great Forest on the new continent now called the
Millis Continent
.

--To be added--

Traits

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

They range from having human-like appearance aside from their ears and tails, to having animal-like heads and hair.

Tribes

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Culture

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Trivia

Women of the beast race have 2 to 3 children per pregnancy

References