This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

Demon King
Beethove Tovetha
 is a
Demon
 belonging to the Nen Tribe in the form of a slime who is the owner and keeper of the
Library Labyrinth
.

Appearance

Beethove Tovetha is an enormous slime and a huge eye ball that is constantly looking up the ceiling, that indicates the use its Demon Eyes. Beethove also has dozens of tentacles that is always seen to be holding a pen to write books.

Personality

"You...de...Filed...it..."

-Beethove Tovetha

Due to the unique nature of how Beethove Tovetha communicates, he tends to ignore almost anyone who enters his Library Labyrinth and would tend to rewrite books most of the time. Beethove Tovetha also has great interest on books from the future and has great interest on its author like how Beethove Tovetha willingly helps
Rudeus Greyrat
 after seeing the contents of his
future self
's
diary
.

Beethove Tovetha also highly treasures the books he made and gets enrage easily despite trying to reason with him if anyone damages the books in his collection and will command his minions to also be enraged to kill anyone who would defile them.

Background

The origins of Beethove Tovetha and his
Library Labyrinth
 is unknown but the existence of books and other recordings belonging to
Kaunis Freean Asura
 during the
Laplace Wars
 implies that Beethove Tovetha has been creating books in the Library Labyrinth around that time or even earlier.

Plot

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Power and Abilities

Demon Eyes

Beethove Tovetha posses the All Seeing Eyes that he uses to see all books all over the
Human World
 that he transcribes with his tentacles keeps the finished books in the Library Labyrinth. Beethove Tovetha uses the Demon Eyes constantly as if Beethove Tovetha is only looking up the ceiling of the Library Labyrinth but he is actually using it to see the books he wants to transcribe.

Physical Abilities

Equipment

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Achievements

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Quotes

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Trivia

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

References