Map of Begaritt Continent



Begaritt Continent
 (ベガリット 大陸
Begaritto Tairiku
) is a continent in the southwest that has a large number of labyrinths, there is high concentration of mana in this region. The strength of the monsters is equal to those of
Demon Continent
. Due to the harsh environment and the number of monsters that spawn the continent is said to be the second most dangerous in the world after the Demon Continent. There aren't any established countries in Begaritt, only towns or safe areas.

Population

A variety of races live here. The majority of them are Human Race Adventurers or ex-Adventurers.

The language spoken is the
Fighting God Tongue
.

Localization

Maze City of Rapan

The most prominent city of Bergaritt Continent that was built inside of an enormous rib cage of a
Behemoth
 monster, which could easily contain an average-sized city, the buildings are mostly made of earth and monster materials.

Teleport Labyrinth

An S-rank labyrinth located in a cave of a cliff near the city of Rapan.

Ports

The Continent has two ports, one that connects with the West Side of the
Central Continent
 in the Asura Kingdom, and the other that connect with the South Side of the Central Continent in Dragon King Realm.

Monsters

Due to the high
mana
 density, the population and strength of the monsters appearing on the continent are close to the level of the
Demon Continent
. Combined with the harsh desert environment, Begaritt is regarded as the second most dangerous continent.

See list of
monsters on Begaritt Continent

Currency

The currency is the Shinsa, but bartering products with monster material or food is more common.

Trivia

It is the only continent disconnected from the
Ringus Sea

The stories said that
Kalman II
 defeated a Great Behemoth where the Maze City of Rapan was built.

The glass is an outstanding product of this region, better than in Asura.

The series never showed the value of Shinsa, but one could buy a meal with 3 Shinsa.

The
succubus
 was a monster that originally was found only in the Demon Continent until
Laplace
 mass produced them to destroy the warriors of the Begaritt Continent.