This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

Bell
 is a female
Human
 hailing from the countryside of the Fittoa Region and a student of
Asura Royal Academy
 and the best friend of
Christina Greyrat

Appearance

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Personality

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Background

"For Ma, Pa, y'all at the village, I'll do mah best."

-Bell

Bell is a village girl from the
Fittoa Region
's countryside. In the aftermath of the
Teleport Incident
, she obtained exceedingly good results in the newly built school and is enrolled to the
Asura Royal Academy
 by recommendation. Aside from her parents, the whole village is proud of her achievements that even the village chief also came to celebrate her achievement and even organized a fund-raising campaign to finance her travel expenses to
Asura Kingdom
's capital Ars.

Plot

"I will protect you from now onwards!"

-Christina Greyrat to Bell

Despite the Asura Royal Academy labeling itself to have a meritocratic system, more than half of the students are from noble pedigree who begins bullying Bell who spends her crying to sleep almost every night. Despite her resolve to help her village, Bell slowly crumbles in despair and her desire to return to her village grows stronger by the day until Christina intervenes and tells off the high aristocrats to stop the bullying. Despite being ignored Chris begins to argue against them which resulted to fist fights that Chris somehow wins due to the special education from her
Greyrat Family
 despite having a swollen face and blood dripping. Seeing Chris' smile and declaration, Bell cried tears of joy as for the first time since she attended the academy and become friends with Chris.

Since then, Chris is in a constant conflict with the high aristocrat students of the academy and Bell would also defend Chris who also continue to help other students of low standing and their group become a faction but they are still viewed by their enemies as a mere mob without ability or authority that could never really pose a threat

Power and Abilities

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Equipment

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Achievements

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Quotes

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Trivia

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

References