Birthday
 (
バースデイ
,

Bāsudei
)
 is the eleventh chapter of the
Mushoku Tensei

manga adaptation
.

Cover Characters

Eris Greyrat

Summary

Somewhere else in the world, a
a Superd man
 approaches two other creatures, begging for their lives.

Back in Roa, Sauros introduces Eris while Philip advises Rudeus stay silent of his Greyrat bloodline, lest he become a political bargaining chip. As Rudeus orders food for later, some guests among the party gossip as to who the unknown boy (Rudeus) is and they crowd him. When the music starts, Eris declines a dance invitation to save Rudeus and be her dance partner, but her nervousness shows until Rudeus makes a funny face to distract her into flowing to the rhythm. With gossip that he could be a Greyrat, the music changes to something Eris never practiced, so Rudeus brings her in close to match her movements. While Rudeus thinks she's unwell, she carries on and as they dance she smiles, quietly growing a crush for Rudeus.

After a magnificent performance, Sauros hoists both of them onto his shoulders in pride. Afterwards, Rudeus leads Ghislaine and Eris to another room and present them a table of food. While Eris is happy to dig in, Rudeus stops her to present her and Ghislaine their own wands. Like how Roxy gifted him, Rudeus presents their wands for mastering his Elementary magic lessons from master to student. While Eris is bluntly wanting a figurine Rudeus made, Ghislaine humbly accepts his gift and is happy to earn the title "mage"; a detail Rudeus was ignorant of as Roxy never told him. Moving on, Rudeus presents the Sylphie figurine Eris wanted, but she changes her mind and accepts her wand. As Eris eyes Ghislaine for a gift, but her culture has no such customs, so Rudeus advises she simply gift an item on her person. So, Ghislaine gifts a family ring said to ward off wolves.

With the gift-giving done, they finally get to eating. After Rudeus and Eris fall asleep, Ghislaine puts the two of them in bed and takes her leave. Rudeus wakes up and finds Eris sleeping beside him, but as he moves in for a "meal" he sees her holding the wand he gifted her and Ghislaine's ring. Commenting on how the ring does hold some effect, Rudeus gives up his intent to let Eris sleep; while Eris is mostly awake holding the gifts she got from her mentors as she rests.

Appearances

Characters

Ruijerd Superdia
 (Cameo)

Eris Boreas Greyrat

Rudeus Greyrat

Sauros Boreas Greyrat

Philip Boreas Greyrat

Ghislaine Dedoldia

Edna Rayrune

Skills

Regions

Others

Differences from Light Novel

Trivia

To Be Added.

Navigation

Template:JuvenileP