Information

Relationships

Appearance

Bloody Kant
 (also known as Bloody Count) is an adventurer and writer that taught magic to
Roxy
 for the first time who gave her the pointed mage hat that she always wore and a recommendation letter for
Ranoa Magic Academy
.

Appearance

A woman of twenty to thirty years of age, with red eyes and long blonde hair.

Personality

She likes learning new things.

Background

She was born in a village near the sea in the
Kingdom of Asura
 and her parents were magicians. From her early ages, she was always immersed in books of heroic stories, where the protagonist explores the world, meets different people, and defeats evil monsters. To explore the world, she left her village and became an adventurer.

Power and Abilities

So far, she has only used Water Bullet when she teaches magic to Roxy.

But to explore the Demon Continent alone and being an S rank adventurer, she must be a least intermediate or advanced rank mage.

Achievements

S rank adventurer.

Famous writer.

Books written by Bloody Kant

Walk the World

Book which describes the cities around the world like
Rikarisu City

,
Millishion

, and
Asura Kingdom

 that Rudeus would quote excerpts from.

Great Men of the World - Heroes

Book published in K480 that features the prominent people in the fields of magic, education and arts during the Armored Dragon Calendar Year 400s century which is referenced by the [Biography of Rudeus Greyrat]

Quotes

To Roxy's family:
"I'm traveling the world! I'm going to write a book about all the things I discover."

Trivia

Like
Roxy
, she left her village to explore the world.

Even though she doesn't appear in the
Web Novel
 and
Light Novel
, sometimes when Rudeus arrives to a new place, the narrator give a description of the place made by her.

The author states two possible scenarios: that the adventurer Bloody Kant and the writer Bloody Kant of the year K480 aren't the same person (Descendant/Disciple?) or it might be a manuscript made by her that was published years later under her name.

References