Buena Village



Buena Village
 (ブエナ村
Buena Mura
) is a small village sitting on the vast
Fittoa Region
 plains of the
Asura Kingdom
. It is located in northern Fittoa closer to the east-west corridor of the
Red Wyrm Mountains
.

Buena is a small hamlet surrounded by vast expanse of agricultural fields and prairies which comprised of approximately thirty households where most of the houses are built far apart from each other.
 Most of the villagers are engaged in the occupation of farming. The village's main produce is Asuran wheat that is used to make bread. Other than wheat, vegetables are also grown, and
Vatirus
 flowers are cultivated which is a main component of making perfume and also edible.

At the edge of the village exists a forest where mana is concentrated and monsters occasionally appear. A watchtower is also built near the edge to keep a watch on monsters and other activities concerning the forest. Once every month, a group of young men, made up of knights, hunters, and the local militia, would head into the woods and exterminate monsters which have been accumulating its species.

Chronology

Childhood arc





Paul and Zenith settling down on Buena Village



After leaving the
Adventure Guild
 and getting married,
Paul Greyrat
 and
Zenith Greyrat
 settled down at Buena Village where Zenith conceived their first child. Paul was stationed as a knight overseeing the production of the village and extermination of monsters that roamed the nearby forest
. During this time
Lilia
 arrived in the village to work as a handmaiden at the Greyrat estate after she was relieved of her guards-maid duties from the Asura Royal Palace
. Zenith took up a job that utilized her abilities as a Healer in the village clinic after their child,
Rudeus Greyrat
, was born.





Roxy arriving at the village



Three years later, to teach the magically-gifted young boy, Rudeus,
Roxy Migurdia
 arrived in Buena Village to take up the profession as Rudeus' private magic instructor
. Along her stay, Roxy was able to befriend the villagers, help out during harvest and earn their respect. After two years, her pupil already reached her level as a proficient mage, Rudeus became a Water Saint. Disheartened and also encouraged by his talent, Roxy left the village soon after in order to expand her own knowledge to become stronger.

While exploring the village outskirts, Rudeus came across a scene of bullying and decided to help out the victim. In this manner, Rudeus made his first friend
Sylphiette
, who became his playmate and first pupil in magic
. Two years later, a family crisis befell them due to Paul having an affair with Lilia while Zenith was pregnant; Lilia became part of the Greyrat family as a result. Zenith's first daughter
Norn Greyrat
 and Lilia's first child
Aisha Greyrat
 were born around the same time.

Not so long after, Paul, in order to let his son experience the outside world and earn his own money, knocked Rudeus unconscious and sent him away from the village to take up a job where he has to tutor a young girl at the
Citadel of Roa
.

Tutor arc

Due to the mana calamity known as the
Teleport Incident
 which befell the
Fittoa Region
, Buena village was engulfed in its effect and its denizens were scattered across the world. The village wholly disappeared from the map along with the Fittoa Region.


Gallery

Level View
Panorama
Riverside
Forest Banks
Giant Tree
Forest Trails
Wheat Fields
Hill with a big tree overlooking Buena Village and Rudeus and Sylphy's playground
1/8

Known Inhabitants

Paul Greyrat

Zenith Greyrat

Lilia Greyrat

Rudeus Greyrat

Norn Greyrat

Aisha Greyrat

Roxy Migurdia

Sylphiette

Laws

Mr. Eto

Mrs. Eto

Somar Eto

Trivia

Rudeus once remarked that the village looked like the picturesque ones in Switzerland.

Even though the village has disappeared and its inhabitants scattered across the world due to the
Teleport Incident
, the hill where Rudeus and Sylphiette used to play remained as a landmark. Though the tree that grew on top is gone.

References