The
Central Continent
 (中央大陸
Chūō Tairiku
) is one of the five continents in the
world
. It is the largest continent by size and is neighbored by the
Begaritt Continent
 to the south-west,
Divine Continent
 to the north-east, and the
Millis Continent
 to the south-east with the
Ringus Sea
 along its eastern coast.






Map of Central Continent



History

Second Great Human-Demon War

The Central Continent was previously part of a larger landmass known as the
Great Continent
 which the
Demon Continent
 was also part of. This giant continent, however, was split into the present-day Central and Demon Continents by the end of the
Second Great Human-Demon War
 due to a
Mana
 Calamity triggered by the dying Demon Dragon-King
Laplace
. After the war ended, the Central Continent and the Demon Continent was newly formed leaving the
Ringus Sea
 in between. The western half of the Great Continent was predominantly populated by humans and naturally, after the splitting, the Central Continent had a human-majority populace.

Laplace War

When Demon God
Laplace
 began his famous campaign from the Demon Continent, now referred to as the
Laplace War
, he put the whole Central Continent in great distress. In a short time, he had gained total control of the north and the south. Then from both directions, he pressed his assault on the western region. The whole continent was close to being dominated by the demons' force.

Laplace was eventually defeated and sealed away with the help of many heroes and the humans entered a treaty with a neutral Demon King and lifted the barricades between the ports ushering the path towards the present age.

Present Age

By the conclusion of the
Lapace War
 only the
Kingdom of Asura
 remained on on central continent
. It wasn't until about a century afterwards that the
King Dragon Realm
 established sovereignty in the south, and another century before the
Shirone Kingdom
 would join the hegemony

Geography

Red Wyrm Mountains

The Red Wyrm Mountains is an enormous chain of mountain and hills that runs across and down the continent separating the land into three parts - the North, the West and the South - with their own distinct geography. The name originates from during the Laplace War when Laplace released his dreaded wyrm dragons in the mountains to block the passage of humans.

The mountain range starts from the northwest where it is known as the
Red Wyrm's Upper Jaw
 and runs across the lands until it forks into two more ranges. One range runs across the landmass without much deviation all the way to the east, and this part has been known as the
Crying Wyrm
 mountain ranges. The other range runs down the continent almost up to the mid-point southern coastline where it abruptly ends to open a route that is mostly used by the people for traversing between the west and the south.

North

The northern continent, referred to as the the "Northern Territories", is a cold region which lies east to the
Red Wyrm's Upper Jaw
 and
Crying Wyrm
 mountain ranges which run horizontally across the continent. The region receives heavy snowfall and the soil is infertile for crops but large expanse of forests are also present. The majority of the nations in this region are poor and weak and often have skirmishes over resources. Many strong monsters appear in this region which attracts warriors-in-training and veteran adventurers.

Notable locations in the north
:

Wyrm's Whiskers
: A monster-infested forest separating the Northern Territories from the northern part of the Kingdom of Asura. It is home to many bandits and criminals who have fled from the Kingdom.

Kingdom of Ranoa
: It is one of the three Magic Nations alliance known for its
institutions
 of magical learning.

Sharia
: One of the largest cities in the Kingdom of Ranoa. Houses the
Ranoa Magic Academy
 and is the headquarters of the Magicians' Guild and Neris Magical Implements Workshop.

Caerleon: boarder town.

Forest of Hail: Forest located three days' travel north of Sharia on the boarder with the Duchy of Basherant.

Duchy of Neris
: It is one of the three Magic Nations alliance known for its manufacturing of
magical implements
.

Gyuranza: capital of Neris and headquarters of the Thunderbolt clan.

Duchy of Basherant
: It is one of the three Magic Nations alliance known for its expertise in arcane
magic
 research.

Pipin: Third largest city in the Duchy of Basherant.

Rosenburg: Nicknamed the "Gateway to the Northern Territories" is one of largest cities in Duchy of Basherant located two months journey north of the Asuran border. Exports of magical implements to the Asura Kingdom account for half of the cities revenue.

Lake Cucuru: located three days journey north from Rosenburg.

Galgua Ruins: Remains of a underground Demon Fortress from First Human-Demon War. Constructed by Demon King Largon-Hargon the Subterranean. Located two days due South from Rosenburg. Became Snow Drake nest since it fell into disuse.

Ilbron Cave: Located one days travels from Rosenburg and Galgua Ruins.

Trier Forest: Forest located half a day's journey due West from Rosenburg, Infested by Snow Treants and Icefall Treants.

Kingdom of Biheiril
: A fairly strong kingdom in the north-eastern edge of the continent surrounded by mountains and forests where the survivors of the
Superd Race
 are currently hiding.

Sword Sanctum
: A territory in the north-western edge of the continent that is covered in snow all year round. It is the headquarters of the
Sword God Style
 school of swordsmanship which attracts a number of young fighters with the hopes of learning under the Sword God himself.

Ogre Island
: An island in the archipelago that lies south of Biheilil where the Ogre God resides along with his Ogre Tribe.

Kingdom of Toile
: a small kingdom in the Northern Territories.

West

The western continent is a prosperous region that lies between the Red Wyrm's
Upper Jaw
 and the
Lower Jaw
 mountain range. It is abundant with rivers and fertile plains but not many large forests are found. Monsters that appear in this region are fairly weak and knights of the Kingdom carry out exterminations to keep the commonfolks safe, which is one of the reasons as to why it is not a popular place for adventurers despite the riches of the lands.

Notable locations in the west
:

Asura Kingdom
: A kingdom which holds autonomy over the west. Not only is it the richest kingdom in the world but its royal capital - Ars, is also the largest city in the world.

South

The southern continent is a fertile region that lies south of the Red Wyrm's
Crying Wyrm
 mountain range and east to the
Lower Jaw
. It has numerous rivers and lakes along with large expanse of plains and dense forest regions. The plains and the forests are divided by the
Dragon King
 mountain range which runs vertically down the region. Though there are numerous nations in the southern continent, a majority of them in the north of the Dragon King mountain range are small and weak regularly warring over territories and as such the region has been referred to as the
Conflict Zone
. Countries in this zone are built only to meet their demise shortly thereafter and be rebuilt once more. However, moving down the Conflict Zone the nations are more stable and have autonomous power over an area.

Notable locations in the south
:

Markien Mercenary Country
: A warmongering country in the Conflict Zone that bases its economy on dispatching mercenaries to neighbouring countries. The mercenaries dispatched are incredibly feared.

HammerPolka
: A town known for producing weapons and armor.

Dikuto Kingdom:
 A country in the Conflict Zone.

Broze Empire:
 A country in the Conflict Zone.

Gardenia Kingdom:
 A country in the Conflict Zone known for its fertile soil.

Nekrina Kingdom:
 A country in the Conflict Zone.

Bista Kingdom
: a kingdom that borders north of Shirone Kingdom.

King Dragon Realm
: a powerful kingdom that holds dominion of the southernmost regions of the continent with affluent resources. It is the third biggest country in the world with four vassal states under it.

Shirone Kingdom
: A vassal state of King Dragon Realm anointed with its own king.

Latakia: Capital city of the Shrinone Kingdom

Kikka Kingdom
: A vassal state of King Dragon Realm.

Sanakia Kingdom
: A Vassal state of the King Dragon Realm.

See
Interactive Map of Central Continent

Monsters

The monsters on the Central Continent are generally less populous and weaker than other continents, except for a selected few areas. In the Asura Kingdom, one has to go deep into the jungle to find C-ranked monsters
, and there are no subjugation requests higher than C-rank in the capital city Ars
. Monsters are stronger and more numerous in the Northern Territories, whereas the strongest monsters are the Red Dragons residing in the Red Dragon Mountain Range, and the King Dragons in the King Dragon Mountain Range.

See
list of monsters on the Central Continent

Gallery

Holy Land of Swords in the Manga
Shirone Royal Palace in the Shirone Kingdom
Ratakia, Shirone Kingdom Capital
1/3

References