This article
lacks information
 and requires expansion. Please
expand this page
 to include missing information to help improve the article.





Chaos Breaker flying above the Red Orb in the Anime



Chaos Breaker
 is a sky castle that previously belongs to
Armored Dragon King Dora
 and later the residence of her son
Perugius Dola
.

Design

When flying above the sky, Chaos Breaker looks like a giant mass of rock covered in dragon scales originating in the
Dragon World
.
 Sitting on the rock is a gigantic castle taller than the Silver Palace home of the royal family of
Asura Kingdom
 that has a garden of similar size and a river.

Background

"It didn't have a name. Ah... if I should give it a name. "Chaos Breaker" I would call it that. Because that scene and that moment of
Kayos
' destruction was forever seared into my eyelids"

-
Laplace

Chaos Breaker is first used by
Armored Dragon King Dora
 during the battle of the Dragon Generals against the
First Dragon God
 at the final years of the
Six-Faced World
 Era. As Chaos Breaker approaches, the First Dragon God fired torrents of power to the fortress but it was protected by spirits summoned by the Dragon Generals. After withstanding a few more shots of the barrage fired by the First Dragon God, the spirits disappear after exhausting their power. The First Dragon God then draws his
GodSword
 and with a single strike everything was carved in half including Chaos Breaker which the upper part fell toward the sky while its lower half remained floating since the function of its core remained intact.

During the
Laplace Wars
, Chaos Breaker is summoned by
Perugius Dola
 and together with his 12 familiars and other heroes, they managed to seal
Laplace
, and Perugius is known as a hero of the war with the new era named
"Armored Dragon Era"
 in his honor.
After growing tired of the palace life in
Asura Kingdom
, Perugius left and to this day travels the world with Chaos Breaker, vigilantly watching over any signs of Laplace's revival to defeat him and get revenge for the death of his friends.

Entry

Elinalise Dragonroad
: "While we're still here, I have to say this. Where we're going isn't a place to joke around at. Remember to watch your mouth."
Cliff Grimoire
: "...I get it. I am not a kid anymore."

To gain entry to Chaos Breaker, you must be at a
Monument of Seven Great Powers
 then blow a golden flute with out any finger holes which is provided by Perugius so in a sense only those who Perugius knows are able to enter or if accompanied by them. The music of the flute that is not heard by
Human
 ears will be heard by
Clearnight of Thunder
, one of Perugius' familiars who will inform
Almanfi
. Almanfi will then teleport to the corresponding monument where the flute is used and he will decide if entry to Chaos Breaker will be granted which so far, demons are forbidden entry. Then Perugius will teleport those approved by Almanfi to the castle which is done by a golden baton that is provided by Almanfi where it is held by all those who wishes to enter Chaos Breaker

Notable Areas

Throne Room





Chaos Breaker's Throne Room in the Anime



"Long ago, Almanfi and
Ghislaine Dedoldia
 fought in a stalemate. In other words, the 12 of them including
Sylvaril
 have strength equal to that of a
Sword King
. I really dont' want to make enemies out of these people. I really need to be very careful with what I say from now on."

-
Rudeus Greyrat

The entrance to the Throne Room (Also known as Audience Room) is a pair of heavy doors dotted with silver and has a dragon painted on each side which took almost an hour to walk from arriving from the outside to get here. Beyond the door is an enormous hall where the tall ceilings are supported by tree-like pillars and ligh radiates from above that is of luxurious and brilliance. The walls have curtains of complex patterns that are products of
Asura Kingdom
 and the Holy Country of Millis. The floor has a red carpet and leading to the stairs of 10 steps where the famed 12 Familiars of Perugius stands at attention and above the stairs is Perugius sitting on his throne overlooking the entire hall.

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Plot

"The "Armored Dragon King" isn't working for any kingdom or governing any territory, and flies around the world with the Sky Fortress "Chaos Breaker.""

-Excerpt from the Legend of Perugius Book

Chaos Breaker is seen flying above the
Citadel of Roa
 where Eris proudly narrates what she knows about the Perugius and his 12 familiars to
Ghislaine Dedoldia
. Rudeus begins to research about this and finds the Legen of Perugius Book which he also have at his home in
Buena Village
 that Rudeus also uses as teaching materials to Eris and Ghislaine.

References