This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

Mad Dragon King
Chaos
 is one of the
First Dragon God
's Five Dragon Generals who is from the Mad Dragon Tribe and the crafter of weapons and armors used by Dragon Tribe to protect their capital Kayos and the Dragon World.

Appearance

Chaos has black-silver scales and profound eyes.

Personality

Chaos has a reputation of being stubborn and has ill feelings towards the Demon Race and as such, he has no qualms on going to war against them. He also is close to his fellow Dragon Generals who know him very well and consider his shouting when emotional to be a normal occurrence.

Background

The First Dragon God teaches the Dragon Tribe how to use
Dragon Battle Aura
 that allowed them to battle against the dragons that rule over Dragon World and eventually conquer it. Although the First Dragon God is powerful, he is not omnipotent and there are places out of reach as well. Thus, from the Dragon Tribe, he chose the 5 most powerful individuals to be the Dragon Generals whom he entrusts them to protecting the Dragon World and Chaos is one of them who are loyal to the First Dragon God.

Apart from his duty as one of the Five Dragon Generals, Chaos is also the leader of the Anti-demon faction of the Dragon World and to distinguish themselves, Chaos also has a unique emblem that resembles the Dragon God's emblem with some alterations.(see photo above)

Plot

"Blasphemy! Maybe if it was
Dora
, but you will have the mixed blooded demon be in charge of the investigation!?"

-Chaos to Szilard

Chaos attends the meeting at the Dragon God's mansion and does not hide his anger on the death of
Crystal
 and at the thought of a demon killing Crystal that is raised by
Szilard
. When
Laplace
 volunteers to investigate further, Chaos strongly opposes this but to his surprise,
Maxwell
 did not object either and calms him down by pointing out what the culprit's possible aim is and in the end, the Dragon God allows Laplace to conduct the investigation.
 Laplace later visits Chaos to question him on his whereabouts when Crystal was killed and afterwards, Chaos assures him that he will help Laplace avenge Crystal even if its in secret.

Chaos attends another meeting with the rest the Dragon Generals where Laplace reports his capture of
Necrolia Nacrolia
 then Szilard reports his interrogation that Necrolia has indeed killed Crystal. Chaos is outraged by this like the rest of the Dragon Generals and urges the Dragon God to invade the Demon World but the latter chose to negotiate with them instead. Although Chaos is willing to assist Laplace in his investigation, he still objects when the First Dragon God names Laplace to be Crystal's successor as Dragon General.

After the meeting of the Gods has concluded and an agreement for the Six Worlds for peace and cooperation, Chaos restrains his hostility towards demons.
 When the Dragon God's child is born, Chaos makes fireworks, an invention of the Human World to excite the parade and like the rest of the Dragon Generals, Chaos is also impressed by the child and left with a solemn expression.

Chaos and the rest of the Dragon Generals accompanies the First Dragon God as he battles and defeats the Gods of the Beast World, Ocean World and Sky World one after another and resulting to the destruction of each world just by the power of the First Dragon God and the Five Dragon Generals.
 But for the Demon World, which is comparable in fighting strength with the Dragon Tribe and in addition, the Eight Great Demon Kings matched strengths with the Five Dragon Generals so the full force of the Dragon World's Dragon Warriors is brought to wage war on the Demon World. The war between the Dragon World and Demon World lasted for decades. During this time every innovation and technology is focused on winning the war where Chaos forge Magic Swords from demon bones.

While the magic and technology development was at its peak during the war, it also caused the massive rise in casualties in both sides which eventually caused a problem in population decline. The
Human God
 suggests that the Five Dragon Generals lure, isolate and gang up on the Eight Demon King one by one causing the
Demon God
 to finally appear in the frontline. The First Dragon God battles and defeat the Demon God but nearly exhausts all his Dragon Battle Aura afterwards that the Dragon Generals brings him back to the Dragon World.

Power and Abilities

Crafter





An automated doll made from Chaos' writings in the Anime



Aside from being a Dragon General, The First Dragon God also assigns Chaos to craft weapons and armor that is used by the Dragon Warriors.
 Chaos had a workshop at the western border where he uses dragon bones and ores for his crafts.
 In addition to weapons and armors, Chaos also crafted automated dolls that
Zanoba Shirone
 admires for its intricate craftsmanship.

Designs of a automaton dolls are also written in a book with Chaos' emblem are also found on what will become the
Greyrat House
 and a moving doll is built that is discovered by
Rudeus
,
Zanoba
 and
Cliff

Equipment

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Achievements

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Quotes

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Trivia

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

References