Christina Greyrat
 is the sixth child and fourth daughter of
Rudeus Greyrat
 and the youngest child he had with
Eris Greyrat
. She is the younger sister of
Ars Greyrat
 and the youngest half-sister of
Lucy Greyrat
,
Lara Greyrat
,
Sieghart Saladin Greyrat
 and
Lily Greyrat
.

Appearance

Christina Greyrat is identical to her mother. She has long, straight, red hair and green eyes like her father. She wears a teal, floral dress with a white, ruffled trim and long sleeves. She is wearing teal slip-ons and white  socks which reach just above her ankles. She appears to be around 10 years old during this time.

Personality

"I will protect you from now onwards!"

-Christina Greyrat

During Christina's childhood, she is considered to be an indoor type and is timid and withdrawn even when Eris would occasionally bring her out, Christina would always be stuck to her and would often start crying and return home because she was scared. Thus she refuses to go out on walks and spends most of her time at home.

Unlike Ars, she is extremely attached to Rudeus who dotes her without restraint and making his lap to be her reserved seat. The only one who can stop her from crying is Rudeus. She is resourceful as implied in planning together with Aisha the downfall of Viola Yellowsnake during graduation. She also showed pity for the girl as the latter chose to cheat to earn titles despite having the capacity to earn them with hardwork.

Chris is raised by her parents to "never bully the weak" and when she tries to stop the bullying of the higher aristocracy, she tries to convince them to stop but when they refuse or when she loses an argument, Chris would resort to using her fists, like her mother Eris would when she was younger without a regard of the nobility status. By helping those who were bullied Chris gained allies as she goes on her turbulent school life at
Asura Royal Academy
.

Background

Christina is the second child of Rudeus and Eris Greyrat who they affectionately refer to as Chris.

Plot

Redundancy: The Last One to Leave the Nest

Christina is graduating from Asura Royal Academy, after solving a problem with a noble, she starts a relationship with
Edward Anemoi Asura
 and begins to work in
Asura
.

Power and Abilities

Physical Abilities

Despite Christina being mediocre when it comes to
Swordsmanship
, she is able to fight one against many due to the special education she received from her parents.

Equipment

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Achievements

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Quotes

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Trivia

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

References