Citadel of Roa



The
Citadel of Roa
 (城塞都市ロア
Jōsai Toshi Roa
) is a fortress city in the Fittoa Region of the
Asura Kingdom
 lying on the
Central Continent
. Being the center of trade and commerce and the administrative headquarters of the
Fittoa Region
, Roa is the largest settlement in the Region.

History

Roa is an ancient city with noble history. Four hundred years ago, it stood as the last bastion of defense during the war against the
Demon race
. Owing to that, there stands a picturesque castle in the middle of the city.

Though, despite its mighty origin story, the nobles of the imperial capital currently saw Roa as nothing more than a crude backwater full of
adventurers
.

Description

Roa is a fortified city built inside walls. Sturdy ramparts, 7 to 8 meters in height are wrapped around the city. The walkways of the ramparts are roofed and along it, towers with conical spires are built with airy overviewing windows and balconies.

The city itself is not a perfect circle; it bent with the terrain making the dimensions hard to estimate.
 The city has a gigantic gate for the influx of merchants and townspeople. At the entrance one would be greeted with stables and inns and the waiting area for the stagecoaches. Along the main road, lines of merchant stalls are erected. Shops for different kind of customers are grouped by street junctions while residence buildings are situated in the alleyways much deeper into the city. The streets are paved and buildings are established in a grid structure with vendor shops lined tidily on the roadsides.

The city was built in such a way that the deeper you went into the city the bigger the houses became and the more luxurious the goods shops offered. The closer you lived to the center, the richer you were. All the shops near the noble district are elegant and peddled expensive wares. A castle is nestled right in the middle of the city which is used as the residence of the
 Region
's lord.

Plot

Story events regarding the Citadel of Roa

Home Tutor arc

Rudeus Greyrat
 is brought to the Citadel of Roa by
Ghislaine Dedoldia
 to be the tutor of
Eris Boreas Greyrat

Rudeus convinces
Philip Boreas Greyrat
 to stage a kidnapping in order to be motivated in learning but Thomas plots to make it a real kidnapping

Upon returning to Roa, Rudeus battles 2 of the kidnappers but is saved by Ghislaine and Eris accepts Rudeus to be her tutor

Rudeus begins tutoring Eris but is still violent so Rudeus proposes the idea of having a 1 free day after 6 days which is later adapted by the
Princess Ariel Faction
 during their stay in Sharia

Rudeus helps Eris into being able to dance during her 10th birthday party earning her respect and praise

During their trip at Roa, Rudeus sees
Chaos Breaker
 passing above them

Eris requests
Sauros Boreas Greyrat
 to throw a party for Rudeus' 10th birthday and gives him the
Aqua Heartia
 as a present

In
K412
 a red orb appears above Roa and people believes its not something bad and even used for prayer to grant wishes

Rudeus tries to cast
Cumulonimbus
 while Ghislaine and Eris are watching but they are attacked by
Almanfi

After the battle between Ghislaine and Almanfi, the
Teleport Incident
 occurs that transports Rudeus and Eris to the
Demon Continent

Homecoming arc

Rudeus and Eris returns to the ruins of Roa after 3 years of travelling from the Demon Continent and they learn that Sauros who is succeeded by James Boreas Greyrat while Philip and Hilda are dead confirmed by Ghislaine

Alfonse is in charge of the efforts of rebuilding Roa and the Fittoa Region, funded by Minister
Darius Silva Ganius

Since James refuses to take Eris in, Alfonse proposes that Eris become the concubine of
Pilemon Notos Greyrat
 that is objected by Ghislaine and wants Eris to run away with Rudeus

Eris spends a night with Rudeus but in the end decides to go to the
Holy Land of Swords
 with Ghislaine

Rudeus falls into depression upon learning this and heads to the northern Central Continent to look for his mother

Alphonse officially announces that Eris dies and Darius eventually pulls the funding for the Fitto Region rebuilding

Gallery

Town
Market Square
Streets
Castle seen from town
Teleport Incident manifesting above Roa
Roa now in ruins where its survivors builds a Refugee Camp
1/6

Known Inhabitants

Sauros Boreas Greyrat

Philip Boreas Greyrat

Hilda Boreas Greyrat

Eris Boreas Greyrat

Ghislaine Dedoldia

Rudeus Greyrat

Alphonse

Thomas

Edna Rayrune

Trivia

The city's mayor is
Philip Boreas Greyrat
.

Even though the wall fortifying the city is specified to be 7-8 metres tall in the light novel, the manga portrays it to be over 50 meters tall towering above most buildings.

References