Complacency
 (
油断
,

Yudan
)
 is the eighth chapter of the
Mushoku Tensei

manga adaptation
.

Cover Characters

Rudeus Greyrat

Summary

Rudeus searches and finds a gagged Eris with her two abductors running down an alleyway, so Rudeus uses Earth magic to create a wall and block their escape. As they see Rudeus using magic, they mistakenly think him as her bodyguard, and the kidnappers propose to pay Rudeus from profits by a
fat noble
 who wishes to buy Eris. But while Rudeus sees it is tempting, he refuses outright as he can't buy personal connections with money. Shooting a fireball into the air, the kidnappers are distracted by the firework, allowing Rudeus to free Eris from the custody of the one holding her.

However, the other thief slices an Earth Cannon attack in half, forcing Rudeus into a hasty retreat. Using a fireball as a feint, the remaining thief is caught in a mud trap, as Rudeus is racing to the street with Eris in his arms. Unable to move, the second kidnapper is forced to throw his blade in an attempt to stop Rudeus. As Rudeus sees the blade flying toward him, he flashes back to Paul's teaching him about North God Style incorporating sword throwing techniques. With no way to dodge or escape anymore, Rudeus believes himself about to die until Ghislaine arrives. Ghislaine destroys the thrown sword and kills the swordsman kidnapper. When asked, Rudy tells her that there were no other kidnappers and that it was his first time seeing someone be killed in front of him.

After Ghislaine advises Rudeus to be more careful, she escorts the children to the Boreas Manor, where the staff tend to them. Once home, Eris is finally allowed to talk having fulfilled her promise to Rudeus, and
grants
 him the
privilege
 to simply address her as Eris. Realizing he never asked her name, Rudeus believes he's finally been hired as her tutor whils Eris falls back and sleeps on the floor. Still thinking back, as that thrown sword was aimed to kill him, and regardless of his being in a fantasy world, Rudeus is afraid as he has no idea what would happen if he were to die again.

Appearances

Characters

Rudeus Greyrat

Eris Boreas Greyrat

Paul Greyrat
 (Flashback)

Ghislaine Dedoldia

Shinohara Akito
 (Flashback)

Nanahoshi Shizuka
 (Flashback)

Skills

North God Sword Style, Thrown Sword technique

Regions

Others

Differences from Light Novel

Trivia

To Be Added.

Navigation

Template:JuvenileP