Counter Arrow
 is a party of the
Adventure Guild
 that Rudeus meets in the
Northern lands
 after
Eris
 left him, and he continues to search for his mother
Zenith
.

History

Counter Arrow was a party that was active in the
Asura Kingdom
, when the party obtained the Rank B as adventurers, they decide to move north to the Duchy of Basherant to search for better quests. In the travel to the Northern Lands, they meet a depressed
Rudeus Greyrat
, after completing a quest with him, he occasionally joined to the party to complete harder quests.

During one of their missions without Rudeus, the party is ambushed by
Snow Buffaloes
 but due to the low visibility caused by the blizzard, they got separated that resulted in the death of Mimir, and Sara gets trapped by a
Icefall Treant
 slowly draining her life force, until Rudeus rescues her upon learning from the remaining party that Sara is still missing.

After Rudeus left Basherant, the party goes on a mission to subjugate a giant wolf but they were ambushed by the monster and injures Suzanne. Sara defeats the giant wolf and the party rushes Suzanne back to the city to be treated. As Suzanne is recovering she announces her intent to disband the Counter Arrow party while Timothy announces that he will marry Suzanne and settle down in
Sharia
, Ranoa Kingdom and Timothy's hometown. Patris decides to go back to Asura Kingdom after hearing a rumor that her sister who is though to be dead is still alive and plans become a soldier if she is alright.

Years later, Rudeus eventually hires Suzanne to be the wet nurse of his first child
Lucy Greyrat
.
 Sara continues working as an Adventurer and joins
The Amazons
, an all female Rank S party who is given a mission in Ranoa where she works with Rudeus once again.

Members

Timothy
 (Leader, Rear Guard Mage)

Suzanne
 (Vice Leader, Vanguard)

Sara
 (Ranged Fighter)

Mimir
 (Rear Guard Healer)

Patris
 (Vanguard)

Temporary members

Rudeus Greyrat
 (Rear Guard Mage)

Abilities

The party was conformed by two in the vanguard, one ranged fighter, and two rear guard.

Trivia

Even though Timothy is the official leader, Suzanne is the person in charge of almost everything.

In the Web Novel, even though only Suzanne appears, Rudeus says that the party was conformed by 4 persons, 2 vanguard (Suzanne, Patris) a Healer (Mimir) and a Mage (Timothy); Sara was added for the LN.

References