This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

Crystal
 is from the Sturdy Dragon Tribe and a member of the Five Dragon Generals. He is also the mate of Dora and the father of
Perugius Dola
.

Background

Crystal has served the
First Dragon God
 as one of his Five Dragon Generals who protect the Dragon World for years. Since the concept of familial relationship is thin among the
Dragon Tribe
, the mating seasons of Crystal and fellow Dragon General
Dora
 aligning is met with high expectation due to it being the first time a child between two Dragon Generals will be born. But before their child is born, Crystal is found dead at a Gold Dragon's nest with his escorts and it looked like he fought the Gold Dragon and lost.

Legacy

The news of the death of Crystal is met with shock by the Dragon Tribe considering he is a Dragon General, recognized by the First Dragon God as the most powerful Dragon Warriors.

A meeting is held on the First Dragon God's mansion with the remaining Dragon Generals who are also in disbelief Crystal's death.

Maxwell
 reports his investigation that a Gold Dragon cannot kill Crystal and there's a possibility that a monster would but feels there is more to this.

Szilard
 considers the possibility that this could be the work of demons

The First Dragon God assigns
Laplace
 to search for the culprit despite Szilard and
Chaos
 volunteering and Chaos also opposing the idea.

Maxwell introduces
Gora and Scrubava
 to Laplace to assist in the investigation, both from the Steel Dragon Tribe like Crystal and are burning for revenge to search for the culprit.

Laplace defeats
Necrolia Nacrolia
 and hands him over to Szilard and reports on the meeting with the First Dragon God and the remaining Dragon Generals that he indeed killed Crystal and is executed.

Laplace informs Dora of his capture of Necrolia and apologizes that he did not bring his head to her but she does not mind and asks that Laplace name Crystal and her child who is still in an egg to which Laplace names him
Perugius
.

Despite the Dragon Generals urging the First Dragon God to go to war against the demons, he chose to negotiate with them reasoning that they are even for losing their own Dragon General and them losing one of their Eight Demon Kings.

The First Dragon God also instructs the Dragon Generals to keep the death of Necrolia a secret to avoid a war with the Demon World before the negotiation.

At Szilard's recommendation to reward Laplace, the First Dragon God grants Laplace the title Demon Dragon King and a place among the Dragon Generals to the surprise of everyone.

During Crystal's funeral rite, the name of the dead are placed on the wall of the burial building but Crystal's name is carved on a stone tablet which is for special people in the Dragon Tribe.

Dora inherits Crystal's research on Teleport Magic takes charge of the Teleportation Research Laboratory in a nameless mountain in the Dragon World.

Power and Abilities

Teleport Magic

The First Dragon God assigns Crystal to the research of Teleportation Magic which has been an unexplained incidents happening through out the Six Worlds and because of this, Necrolia assassinates Crystal ordered by the
Demon God
.

Achievements

Became a Dragon General, who's power is recognized by the First Dragon God.

References