Curses
 (
呪い
,

Noroi
)
 are special abilities born from abnormalities in
Mana
. They can manifest in two forms: people whose abilities are beneficial to others are known as
Miko
 (
神子
,

Miko
, lit. "Blessed Child")
, while those whose abilities bring disadvantage or harm are known as
Cursed One
 (
呪子
,

Noroi-ko
, lit."Cursed Child")
. This distinction is made by humans and fundamentally, both are the same kind of anomalous ability. Because whether an ability is beneficial or harmful is judged by others, even a Miko’s ability can sometimes be detrimental to themselves.

Cliff Grimoire
 proposes a hypothesis that suggests a connection between curses and
magic items
. According to his theory, the effects of curses and magic items are essentially the same. After hearing that
Laplace
 transferred his curse to the
Superd Tribe
 through a
spear
, Cliff Grimoire is researching a technique to send mana from a
magic tool
 to offset the negative effects of curses and alleviate their symptoms.

Cursed Ones

Elinalise Dragonroad

Elinalise Dragonroad is afflicted with a curse inherited from being trapped in a labyrinth magic crystal. This curse causes mana to accumulate within her body, which must be crystallized through receiving a male’s sperm. If she fails to receive it, the mana bulges too dangerously within her, ultimately leading to her death. As a result, she produces a mana crystal once per month.

During pregnancy, her condition can be temporarily subsided as the mana flowed into the unborn child instead, eliminating the need for sexual intercourse to avoid death. As result, her children born inherit exceptionally high mana capacity without exception. Thanks to Cliff’s research, a magical device was devised that suppressed the curse—allowing her to go over a year without intercourse by the time Cliff graduated.

Ruijerd Superdia

Cursed after Laplace transferred his own curse to him. Makes others feel intense fear toward him. The effect has weakened over time as his physical resemblance to Laplace (green hair) faded.

Demon God
Laplace

Laplace has a curse on him that makes all living creatures of the Human World fear him extremely, which according to
Perugius
 is a curse that shakes the innermost heart of people. Laplace transferred the <Curse of Fear> to the
spears
 and passed it onto the
Superd race

Dragon God
Orsted

Orsted's curse affecting all creatures of the world
Curse on Orsted causing even dragons to fear him
1/2

Orsted is born with an innate curse that causes every living being in this world to instinctively despise and fear him—those who sense his
mana
 harbor hostility toward him. A powerful curse so intense that children cry, dogs flee, and carriages overturn merely from his presence. There are some exceptions:

Those with ancient dragon blood, like
Perugius
, are immune.

Rudeus
 and his descendants, as well as
Nanahoshi
, are not influenced by this curse.
Hitogami
 speculates that “it doesn’t affect people from other worlds,” while Orsted believes his status as a reincarnated being may also play a role.

Some individuals possess the mental fortitude to overcome the curse, such as
Eris
,
Ruijerd
 and
Ariel
.

Wearing the magical tool, Curse Suppressing Helmet, crafted by
Cliff
 can mitigate the curse’s effects.

It seems the root of the curse is linked to fear stemming from the
First Dragon God
—who annihilated all worlds except the
Dragon
 and
Human World
. From this, it's inferred that the curse doesn’t affect the Dragon Tribe who were not adversaries of the First Dragon God, nor does it affect people from other worlds who never interacted with him.

Henry Macedonia

Becomes difficult to be recognized by others. The curse can be mitigated with a curse-repelling mask. However, most humans, except for his biological mother, cannot recognize Henry, and his face cannot be remembered. Notably, the Superd Tribe with a third eye can recognize him.

Mikos

Only about ten Mikos exist whole world . Outside of royalty, most are stripped of their birth names and renamed
“Miko of [Ability]”
, with the title reflecting their innate abilities. They are typically bound to serve the kingdom of their birth.

Miko of Superhuman Strength
Zanoba Shirone





Zanoba's Miko Power in the Anime



Even at a young age, Zanoba is abnormally strong, capable of standing off against a demon king as far as raw strength goes. Any hit from Zanoba is potentially fatal even with
Battle Aura
. This power does not include stamina, however, as Zanoba is described to be unfit for long travels.

Miko of Memory

When looking into someone's eyes, the Miko of Memory is able to see one's "surface memories", memories that a person has in mind. This also extends to being able to see related memories to that subject, and the longer she stares into someone's eyes, the more of that person's memories she sees.

Miko of Rewind
 Lilia

She has the ability to alter the past, but since she cannot fully control it, her power is believed to be only the ability to rewind an object’s time by a single day.

Hitogami

He is automatically trusted by all Humans in the world and has the ability to talk to people in their dreams. When he speaks with people in their dreams, he's able to read their minds.

Zenith Greyrat

Zenith has gained the ability to read minds after being trapped in a Magic Crystal during the Teleport Incident. A side effect of her power is that she is in a dream like state where she is not fully awake and not able to actually speak, but thinks she is speaking due to her telepathy.

Nether King
Vita

He can read the memories of his enemies, predict the future that might have occurred and blend it with the desires of his opponent, putting them into an endless illusion. By splitting off part of his own body and inserting them into people, he can control many people at the same time and even halt a disease outbreak.

Kishirika Kishirisu

She's most known for her ability to produce, control and give demon eyes. She carries 12 types within her body, each with their own unique ability. She regenerates these demon eyes as she grows older after reincarnation, it may be possible that she generates new ones if she gets old enough without dying.

Items

See in
Magic Items

See in
Cursed Swords

See in
Demon Spear

Trivia

There are only about 10 Mikos in the whole world.

As long as you are not royalty, your birth name will be taken away and replaced with just "Miko" (Such as in the case of
Millishion Miko
) and you will be forced to work for the kingdom.

References