Darius Silva Ganius
 (
ダリウス
・
シルバ
・
ガニウス
)
 was the Prime Minister of the
Asura Kingdom
.

Appearance

Darius is a fat and bald old man that wears wealthy clothes.

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Personality

A vile human who does everything he can to gain power and please his desires. He would regularly kidnap young noble women such as
Eris Boreas Greyrat
, which failed, and
Tristina Purplehorse
, which succeeded, and would use them as his sex slaves and play toys, selling them off once he was done with them. He also had no problem ordering people to kill others when he thinks it will benefit himself, such as when he ordered
Reida Reia
 to kill
Ariel Anemoi Asura
. His appearance and character may be a reference to Minister
Foss
 from Berserk.

Background

He was a big supporter of the first prince of the Asura Kingdom,
Grabel Zafin Asura
, and would do everything in his power to coerce others to his side to give Grabel the best chances of becoming King, even if he did not deserve the throne.

Plot

Vol 2

Darius is suspected to be behind the true kidnapping of Eris.

Vol 4

Darius informed Grabel about Ariel's suspicious movements and sent
Nights Eye Crow
 to kill her. Even though she fails, he continues to send assassins after her until she leaves the country.

Vol 6

He financially supported the Boreas family after the
Teleport Incident
, and helped protect them and allow them to rebuilt House Boreas when the other nobles would have crushed it, taking as much of the land they owned for themselves. However he thought
Sauros Boreas Greyrat
 was a fool for wanting to use the entire Boreas fortune on rebuilding
Fittoa
, so he persuaded
Pilemon Notos Greyrat
 into action,  and caused Sauros to be blamed for the teleport incident which led to his execution.

Vol 17

Darius would repeatedly send assassination attempts to any noble that would side themselves with Ariel, which caused some of them to switch sides to the first prince Grabel out of fear for their lives.

Darius is one of the
Hitogami
 apostles, and he was behind every attack against Ariel. After he was exposed by Tristina and Ariel his political position was greatly reduced as he was going to be punished for his crimes of kidnapping and abusing Tristina, but Reida came to his rescue and ordered
Auber Corvette
 to carry him to safety, but he was killed by ultimately chased down by
Rudeus Greyrat
,
Ghislaine Dedoldia
, and Eris. After the three defeated his guard, Auber, Ghislaine was allowed to deliver the final blow to Darius as he was the one who ordered Sauros to be executed, which was the person Ghislaine wanted to avenge.

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Power and Abilities

He can use fire magic, including the fire spell
fireball
.

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Equipment

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Achievements

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Quotes

To Grabel:
 “I’ve watched them quietly this past year. If they’re going to be Your Majesty’s enemies, Prince Grabel, then naturally we must dispose of them.”

Trivia

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

References