"He was a shrewd man, possessing a strong ambition. If the mana calamity had not happened, Ariel was fated to encounter Perugius. And the one who at that time would have persuaded Perugius was Derrick."

Orsted

Derrick Redbat
 was an advanced ranked magician and the previous guardian mage of Ariel before Fitts.

Appearance

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Personality

While Orsted describes Derrick to be shrewd and ambitious, he is also a man of common sense and due to hailing from a middle class noble family does not share the behavior of upper class nobles where the ability to toy with others was a status symbol especially those in the Silver Palace. Derrick also has understanding of the dangers within Asura Kingdom that has been on a standstill due to the ugly political bickering between the nobilities and would remain a drag on the kingdom's progress despite the overwhelming advantages Asura Kingdom has, it might not last even fifty years should the surrounding kingdoms invade.

Out of all the heirs, Derrick believes that Ariel is the most suitable to become queen because of her unsurpassed charisma and that she certainly would be a monarch beloved by the people, just as her ancestor
Kaunis Freean Asura
 that led humanity after the Laplace Wars was.

Background

Derrick is the third son of the famed Redbat house, an advanced ranked magician hailed from the historic Asura Magic Academy and became a guardian purely due to his exemplary grades in the Magic Academy. A noble with advance magic was of great value. The Redbat family was mere middle class noble of Asura Kingdom, thus largely disconnected from the decadence within the Silver Palace.

Derrick first meets Ariel after his graduation at a coming of age banquet hosted by the king himself where Ariel participated in the banquet as an honored guest. Although young, her congratulatory speech was brilliantly made, even outshining the valedictorian with her intellect. His father later suggested "the position of Second Princess Guardian Magician is vacant, don't put your hopes up, but want me to recommend you?" Without a moment of doubt he took the offer and gets the position and works with
Luke Notos Greyrat
.

Plot





Derrick and Ariel saved by Syphiette



Derrick would frequently lecture on kingship and persuade Ariel to become queen but Ariel would refuse because of numerous assassination attempts on her life. He sacrifices his life protecting Ariel from a terminate boar that appeared in the Silver Palace due to the
Teleport Incident
. Derrick aware his wounds are fatal sees Ariel in tears next to him and felt an unexpected happiness since he assumed that Ariel and Luke despised him for his lectures and tells Ariel his final request for her to become queen. Seeing Luke get knocked off by the boar, Derrick could only pray despite knowing that it meant little on this desperate situation but his prayer is answered when he sees an angel falling from heaven and kills the boar. Seeing this happen, Derrick shed a final tear in thanks and entrusts the angel to continue protecting Ariel.

Legacy

He is succeeded by
Fitts
 and all his equipment was given to her.

Ariel resolves to become queen because of Derrick's final request.

Rudeus Greyrat
 helps Ariel recall Derrick's lectures on kingship and successfully gains Perugius' backing to become queen.

Power and Abilities

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Equipment

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Achievements

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Quotes

"Please, God, I pray to you to aid us in our current predicament. Take my life as exchange; please help Ariel, whose existence this world cannot be without."

"As long as Ariel-sama has the will to fight, I'll be more than happy to sacrifice my life against assassins, if need be."

Trivia

In
Orsted
's previous loops, Derrick is the first person needed for Ariel to become
Asura Kingdom
's queen by successfully convincing
Perugius Dola
 to support Ariel's ascent to the throne and he would become her Prime Minister but has died during the Teleport Incident despite having a strong fate.

Reference