This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

Disturb Magic
 (
乱魔

,

Ran Ma

)
 is a
Unique/Unclassified

Magic
 that disrupts and cancels an opponent's spell during the activation phase, before it fully manifests.

Background

Disturb Magic is devised by the Dragon God
Urupen
[
Citation needed
]
 and is also first seen to be used by
Orsted
 during his
first battle against Rudeus
.





Rudeus practicing Disturb Magic in the Anime



Rudeus: "Since there is a number of cases where my magic has been sealed and I've been unable to do anything recently, I'm researching it after all."
Eris: "Hey, why is Rudeus that strong?"

Rudeus learned the technique through analysis and combat experience during his first near-fatal battle with Orsted, in which Orsted used it against him. Later, while training with Sylphiette, Rudeus developed a method to counter Disturb Magic itself, enabling him to cast spells despite its interference.

Details

Orsted using Disturb Magic in the Anime
Orsted using Disturb Magic against Rudeus in the Manga.
Rudeus' right hand sealed by Disturb Magic.
1/3

Disturb Magic works by sending magic designed to counteract the target spell. This interference causes the opponent's magic to scatter harmlessly before it can form.

It's an extremely rare and difficult technique to learn and master. Even highly talented mages like
Sylphiette
 struggle with it significantly.

Secrecy





Rudeus and Sylphy practicing Disturb Magic in the Anime



Fitz: "H-How did you do that?"
Rudeus: "Its a spell called Disturb Magic. Haven't you heard of it?"

Aside from Orsted and Rudeus, Disturb Magic's existence is not known even in prominent schools like
Ranoa Magic Academy
 that upon seeing it for the first time, that it is speculated that it is a Unique Magic of a certain
race
.
 At Sylphy's request to learn Disturb Magic, they develop a method to practice Disturb Magic where Rudeus would try to keep a
Waterball
 active while Sylphy tries to use Disturb Magic to neutralize it.

Counter

Rudeus using wind magic with his left hand while his other hand is sealed by Disturb Magic.
1/1

"Hmm... you managed to cancel Disturb Magic? No, its different... its a form of multiple incantations. Being able to do it with voiceless incantations, what a skillful guy you are."

-Orsted to Rudeus

Disturb Magic is only effective against magic cast from within a certain distance. Spells cast from beyond the range of the interfering magic are unaffected. It typically targets the magic activation at one specific part of the opponent's body (e.g., a hand). However, magic can still be cast using other body parts that are not currently targeted. During
Rudeus
's first battle with
Orsted
, Orsted used Disturb Magic to seal the magic in Rudeus's right hand. However, since it only targeted one body part, Rudeus could still cast magic with his left hand.

References