This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

"Dragon God-sama had his own considerations. He always thinks about us, the Dragon Race. Even when he does something we don't understand, it's done for the future of our race, so I don't need an explanation."

Armored Dragon King Dora

Dora
 is from the Armored Dragon Tribe and a member of the Five Dragon Generals who oversees the training of dragons and Dragon Warriors. She is also the mate of
Crystal
 and the mother of
Perugius Dola
.

Appearance

Dora has exceptionally large wings and beautiful white scales.

Personality

Among the Five Dragon Generals, Dora is particularly loyal to the
First Dragon God
, that she takes as a great point of pride. During
Laplace
's training, Dora  would resort to provocations and physical harm which is long been an effective method for teaching hierarchy.

Despite possessing personal pride for the training methods she has refined for millenia, she is willing to put those aside as long as it benefits the First Dragon God.

Background

Show respect and submit to me. I don't tell lies. Be true and trust me with all your heart. No whimpering or saying I can't. It's a waste of time. If you don't give up, I will surely raise you into a fine dragon warrior

-Dora to Laplace

Dora immediately provokes Laplace to a fight upon meeting and after she tells
Lunaria
 that the First Dragon God's order to educate Laplace, Lunaria bids Laplace to learn well and leaves with the servants. For the next five years, Dora teaches Laplace how to speak, history, geography, status relationship, etiquette, industry and various other common knowledge of the Dragon Tribe. Dora then trains Laplace on classroom training and combat during the morning and leaves Laplace alone to learn to fly from afternoon to night.

After Laplace completes his Dragon Warrior training, he becomes Dora's subordinate and she assigns him to train a red dragon. One year later, Dora is surprised to find that Laplace is able to tame the dragon that he names
Saleyakt
 and upon hearing the method Laplace has used which is different Dora's method of beating them to submission, she assigns him to tame dragons that are deemed untrainable through out the Dragon World which eventually decreased the number individuals killed and the number of high quality dragons increased.

Dora and Crystal's spawning season happened to overlap and like the rest of the Dragon Race of breeding age, they were obligated to prioritize making the next generation where Dora already had some children that are all fully grown Dragon Warriors or Dragon Trainers but a child of 2 Dragon Generals are met with high expectations. So before that time, Dora names Laplace to be her substitute to supervise all dragon training grounds in the Dragon World during the spawning season which Laplace feels honored to be selected to carry out Dora's duty for around 30 years.

"For a long time, I had watched him develop... While he still lacks the strength to be worthy of the title Dragon General... we were once inadequate as well. Dragon God-sama's battle banner needs new blood if we're to grow our battle strength. Laplace. It's an honor. Work harder now, more than ever."

-Dora

When Crystal died, Dora was unable to attend the meeting with the First Dragon God and the rest of the Dragon Generals due to her pregnancy but Laplace, who was her substitute on the meeting informs her that he is assigned to look for Crystal's killer to which Dora asks her to bring the head of the criminal.

Laplace visits Dora after capturing Crystal's killer and apologizes for the delay of the report and that he did not bring his head but Dora doesn't mind then asks him to name hers and Crystal's child to which Laplace names him
Perugius
.

Dora attends the meeting at the Dragon God's mansion where Laplace and
Szilard
 give their reports, and confirm that the criminal Laplace has captured is
Necrolia Nacrolia
, and his reasons for killing Crystal. Although Dora looks calm, the rest of the Dragon Generals knows that Dora is enraged and they all urge the Dragon God to declare war on the Demon World but the Dragon God choose to negotiate with them. When the Dragon God bestows Laplace with the title Demon Dragon King and Crystal's successor as Dragon General, Dora is shocked but welcomes Laplace like the most of the Dragon Generals.

When the Dragon God's child is born, even the dragons that are ongoing training with Dora is treated well that lasted for decades and like the rest of the Dragon Generals, Dora is also impressed by the child and left with a solemn expression.

After Lunaria's death and funeral, Dora gives her list of suspects which is the same as the rest of the Dragon General and is also present when the
Human God
 reveals the plot of the other worlds against the Dragon God. Dora and the rest of the Dragon Generals accompanies the First Dragon God who goes to war against the Beast God, Sea God and  Sky God resulting to their deaths then the destruction of their respective worlds.

--To be added--

Power and Abilities

Summoning Magic

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Teleportation Magic

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Spirit Summoning Magic

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Equipment

God Spear

A spear forged by
Chaos
 to combat the first dragon god

Achievements

Domesticated the dragons in the dragon world

Invented spirit summoning magic

Quotes

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Trivia

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

References