This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

The
Dragon King's Knight Order
 is an order of
Knights
 under the command of
Pax Jr.

--To be added

Background

Plot

Members

Pax Jr.

Black Dragon Knight Commander Pax Shirone Jr. is the leader of the Dragon King's Knight Order

Sieghart Saladin Greyrat

Death God Knight Sieghart Saladin is the Deputy Commander of the Dragon King's Knight Order

Lauri Shirone

"Screaming Princess" Lauri Shirone is one of Pax Jr.'s granddaughter who has dark skin and blue hair around the age of 20. Despite her age she is also an arcknight and is educated by Pax Jr. and raised her as one of his commanders.

Jeda

"Loyal Hound Knight" Jeda is a male
North Saint
 half
Demon
 with dull blonde hair, thin eyes, sharp ears, with scales and a large x-shaped scar on his face. He was a
Slave
 who has talent for the sword and is purchased by Pax Jr.

Herpel

"Tribal Knight" Herpel is a man with dark skin, has black hair braided into several braids that is bundled behind his head and has a body better honed than anyone.

Atmos Roland

"Iron Knight" Atmos Roland is huge man with a gentle smile even broader than Herpel. But most of his width is due to his arms and two great mounds of black metal.

Pyi Ku

"Dwarf Knight" Pyi Ku is a female
Dwarf
 with a childlike body and wears a toylike armor. But his face is not that of a child and is considered to be the most intelligent of the knight order.

Others

Due to Pax Jr.'s tendency to favor those who are more capable than those of high status and willing to give people a chance to prove themselves, rumors circulate and people flocked from everywhere. The Dragon King's Knight Order assigned these people work according to their abilities that even the handling of
Slaves
 are more organized than anywhere else that they rarely died from sickness or injury and were given the ability to showcase their abilities. For those capable, the Dragon King's Knight Order for a hefty sum and be treated generously.

References