This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

The
Dragon Tribe
 is a race of humanoids with scales, known for their use of Dragon
Battle Aura
 (also known as
Touki
 or Fighting Spirit) that lives in the Dragon World and is ruled by the First Dragon God until the destruction of their world at the hands of Hitogami. They are known to be very strong and can fly by infusing their wings with Touki.

Appearance

The Dragon Tribe (or Dragon Race) has wings, golden eyes and scales covering their bodies. In addition, they had sharp claws and fangs which they used for combat.

Domain

Dragon World

The Dragon World is the home world of the Dragon Tribes which is an inverted world where the Mountains are located above while the sky is below. It is also the home of several species of dragon such as the Red Dragons, Blue Dragons and Gold Dragons which the Dragon Tribe hunt for food or train as mounts.

Kayos

Kayos is the capital city of the Dragon Tribe located at the hollowed center of Dragon Roar Mountain in the Dragon World. The Dragon Roar Mountain is the largest mountain and located at the center of the Dragon World that was once a nest of Red Dragons that the Dragon Tribe conquered and they built their city with the First Dragon God's mansion at its center. Aside from Kayos where most of the Dragon Tribes lives, there are 122 villages inhabited by various tribes where the tribe must have sufficient battle strength to exterminate dragons or any other threats.

Five Dragon Generals

The
First Dragon God
 was powerful, but he's not omnipotent. There are places out of his reach as well. That's why from the Dragon Race, he made the five most powerful individuals the Dragon Generals, and entrusted them with protecting the world.

Laplace

The Five Dragon Generals (also known as Five Dragon Kings) are the Dragon God's personal confidants and assists him in overseeing the protection of the Dragon World capital Kayos and its 122 towns each inhabited by various tribes of the Dragon Race.

Szilard

[Holy Dragon General]
Szilard
, also known as Shilard is one of the 5 Dragon Generals who fought against the first generation Dragon God.
  Szilard is the leader of the Five Dragon Generals and considered to be the second in command on the First Dragon God's behalf when he is away.
.  Szilard's crest is engraved on
Magic Tools
 seen in a hidden teleport ruins which
Rudeus
 believes to belong to him after reciting the incantation.

Dora

[Armored Dragon General]
Dora
 is the most loyal among the Dragon Generals to the First Dragon God and is in charge of training of Dragon Warriors and Dragons to defend the Dragon World which includes training
Laplace
. She is also the mate of
Crystal
 and the mother of
Perugius Dola
.

Chaos

[Mad Dragon General]
Chaos
 is one of the 5 Dragon Generals who fought against the first generation Dragon God.
 According to
Zanoba Shirone
, Chaos loves dolls and created an autonomous doll that has his crest drawn in a house which later becomes
Rudeus
' home in Sharia, Ranoa Kingdom. Peruguis mentions that Chaos has died and it is unknown if he left a successor.

Maxwell

[Dark Dragon General]
Maxwell
 is one of the 5 Dragon Generals who fought against the first generation Dragon God.
 Maxwell specializes in magical craftmanship and construction. An arc handmade by Maxwell is seen in Perugius' Sky Castle [Chaos Breaker] and some of his work is also seen in the White Palace,
Millishion
. According to
Sylvaril
, Maxwell wanders the world somewhere if he is still alive.

Crystal

[Steel Dragon General]
Crystal
 is the mate of Dora and the father of Perugius who specializes in Teleportation Magic. After his death, he is succeeded by Laplace
 and his teleportation research is continued by Dora
.

Abilities and Powers

Dragon Battle Aura

Developed by the First Dragon God which allows its user to multiply their physical abilities many-folds and harden their skin. Due to their Battle Aura, the Dragon Tribe was considered the most powerful sentient race of all six worlds because they where extremely strong and fast.

Teaching of Nail, Fangs and Wings





Orsted using Claw Technique and Fang Technique against Ruijerd



"Train your claws, fangs and wings to make your body strong."

Laplace

Fundamental fighting style of the Dragon Tribe that involves the usage of Dragon Battle Aura.

Wing Technique

Cover one's wings with Dragon Battle Aura for rapidly accelerating or deaccelerating to change one's position behind the enemy.

Fang Technique

Cover one's fists with Dragon Battle Aura to break through the enemy's defense and weaken them.

Claw Technique

Cover one's claws with Dragon Battle Aura to cut the enemy and cause a fatal injury.

Flight

Almost all dragon members of the Dragon Tribe could fly by infusing their wings with Touki to levitate off the ground and glide using their wings.

Long Lifespan

A regular Dragon Tribe member could live for tens of thousands of years on average and so time flowed differently for them.

Culture

Members of the Dragon Tribe hatched from eggs and they had a spawning season in which they could mate and lay those eggs. Due to their long lifespan, the people of the Dragon Tribe could have children only once every one thousand years. Dragon Tribe pregnancy took 50 year and it took another 50 years for the eggs to hatch.

The Dragon Tribe did not have the concept of "Family" young members of the Dragon Tribe were raised in specialized nurseries. However, the parents and children did share a special bond between each other.

Members of the Dragon Tribe who could not fly where branded as "Fallen" and would be looked down on and had to do the jobs no one else wanted to do.

Trivia

The number 6 is considered an unlucky number based from the number of Five Dragon Generals and the First Dragon God waging war on the five other worlds leading to its destruction.

It is said a monstrous black serpent lives beneath the sky and feeds on the carrion that falls from above.

References