Drain Syndrome
is an ancient disease that affects those with too little mana capacity, which
Nanahoshi
 had due to the nature of her body.

Background

"Drain Syndrome eh? That name sure is nostalgic. People still getting sick from that, now that's shocking!"

-Kishirika Kishirisu

Drain Syndrome had existed in the
Human World
 ever since its early ages especially on children. Drain Syndrome was eventually eradicated around 7,000 years ago during the first
Human-Demon Wars
 at the reign of Demon Empress
Kishirika Kishirisu
. The war caused all kinds of advancements for
Humans
 such as increase in their mana capacity, which in turn made them immune to Drain Syndrome. As such, information and written records about the illness is very scarce during the present day, and some consider finding the disease's name to be a miracle in ancient libraries such as in
Perugius Dola
's Flying Fortress
.

Cause

Drain Syndrome is a disease that occurs when a human with little or no
Mana
 capacity externally accumulates mana over time, until their body begins to react negatively to it. It usually takes around 10 years to happen for children. In other words, it's a disease that results from having mana within body that is incapable of holding mana. Despite the Humans that are born in the Human World are already immune to it for the past 7000 years, Drain Syndrome still affects those that have drifted to the Human World like Nanahoshi.

When the patient's body is no longer able to handle the mana absorbed, they exhibit symptoms of frequent coughing that gets more severe over time, to the point of coughing blood, collapsing and losing consciousness. The affected patient would have a pale complexion and dark circles under their eyes while bedridden, and would eventually die unless treated
.

Treatment

"Don't be mistaken. As guests of my castle, I'll offer some minimum assistance. But don't expect everything. My ultimate purpose is to find and destroy Laplace."

-Perugius





Recovering Nanahoshi with Sokasu Tea



Drain Syndrome has no permanent cure and it does not work even with the use of Healing Magic or Detoxification Magic. Otherwise, Drain Syndrome's sickness can temporarily be cured by drinking tea made from Sokasu Grass, which removes the Mana that accumulated in their body through their waste.

The unique power of Perugius' familiars can also be used as a temporary treatment such as Yuruzu of Atonement's power of transfer the health and vitality from one person to the patient. Sukeakoto of Time's power to stop time can also be used but because the patient's time is stopped no further research on the cure can be done and ultimately Sokasu Tea is the best treatment.

References