This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

Talhand, a male Dwarf in the Anime
Julie a female Dwarf in the Anime
1/2

Dwarves
 (
炭鉱族
,
Dowaafu
, lit. "Coal Mine Tribe") are a race of people who currently live at the foot of the Blue Dragon Mountain Range in the
Millis Continent
.

Background

Due to the Dwarves being created during the
Age of Chaos
, they are sometimes classified as a
Demon Race
.
 When the
Human World
 change from a world of endless grass lands to a world that has the terrain features of the rest of the
Six-Faced World
 due to the war of the
First Dragon God
 with the rest of the world, the Dwarves chose to settle at the foot of the Blue Dragon Mountain Range in the Millis Continent like other
Races
 who settled in the terrain that is close to their previous world while the Humans and Demons are at a ceaseless conflict for dominance of the Human World.

Trait

Julie using Earth Magic in the Anime
Talhand using Earth Pillar in the Anime
1/2

Dwarves are shorter in height compared to Humans

Male Dwarves have a stout body constitution while female dwarves are similar to young female humans

Dwarves have a longer lifespan compared to humans where some of them have lived since the
Laplace War
 from 400 to 500 years ago

As a race of craftsmen and blacksmiths by birth, dwarves have naturally dexterous hands and high affinity towards earth and fire magic

Known Dwarves

Talhand

Juliette

Godbard

Balda

Pyi Ku

--To be added

Culture

Depending on the settlement, dwarves vary culture wise. Like in the Dwarf Village in the Millis Continent, dwarves would raise all children of the same generation together like a school, and they would treat each other as siblings.

Dwarves especially the adults, consider Water and Wind Magic worthless and refuses to acknowledge it due to tradition and formality which Talhand begins to practice and eventually becoming an outcast and leaving the Dwarf Village.

Dwarf Children don't get an official name until they are seven years old, and when they do, they receive a name that's fashioned after something they're good at, something they're attracted to, or something they like(eg. Balda the Hammer for his tendency to use his hammer to fix things or use it on his underling for making a mistake). Until then they are referred to as "child of (Father's name) and (Mother's Name).
.

Domain

References