This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

Edward Anemoi Asura
 is the son of
Ariel Anemoi Asura
 and a Prince of the Asura Kingdom.

Appearance

Edward is an unquestionably handsome guy from every angle. He has a well defined nose, with slightly drooping eyes and unique platinum blonde hair that one can never get tired of looking.

Personality

Edward is callous and has a cold personality in general. He is playfully teasing of people he's genuinely interested in, such as
Christina Greyrat
, and will go out of his way to help them despite some sarcasm. He cannot be bothered to care about people he is not interested in.
 He is a straightforward and honest person when it comes to his beloved, as he was upfront with Rudeus Greyrat when confronted about Edward's relationship with his daughter.

Plot

Redundancy

Edward is a friend of
Christina Greyrat
. After berating his ex-fiancee Viola Yellowsnake and disowning her, Edward takes on the position as the next valedictorian of the Asura Royal Academy graduation ceremony. However, he relegates the position to Christina who is more deserving of it. Edward plans to become a diplomat for the Royal Family in the Northern Lands, the direction of the Three Great Magical Nations.

Later, Edward tries to pester Christina to introduce him to her father,
Rudeus Greyrat
. After telling Rudeus what Christina told him about Rudeus' habits at home, Rudeus questions what is his relationship with Christina, to which he asks for his permission to date Christina with intent of marriage. Rudeus, finding no excuse to refuse, invites him to talk alone for a while, albeit somewhat reluctant. In the end, Edward receives Rudeus' permission to date Christina.
[1]

Achievements

De-factor valedictorian behind his Asura Royal Academy graduation ceremony

Diplomat for Asura Royal Family in the Northern Lands, in the direction of the Three Great Magical Nations

Quotes

"In the future, I will be involved in diplomacy. I cannot marry someone who calls a foreign dignitary a country bumpkin in public! I am breaking off our engagement!"

"Yes! However, Mother, there is someone more suitable to be our representative than I am. That person is someone who has saved many students and even turned former enemies into allies... a person who embodies the ideals of the Asura Royal Academy."

Rudeus:
"Okay, so what's your relationship with Chris like?"

Edward:
"I would like to have a relationship with Chris with the intention of getting married."

Trivia

It is implied that
Luke Greyrat
 may be Edward's biological father, as his physical description is similar to that of Luke's when he was introduced to Rudeus.

Edward dating and possibly marrying Christina Greyrat fulfills Rudeus' and Ariel's former agreement of a consensual arranged marriage between their families. Previously, Ariel tried to do this with Sariel and
Sieg Greyrat
, to no avail.