This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

Information

Story

Relationships

Appearance

If you find a good man, you better not let him get away. You have to use your upper lips as well as your lower lips so he doesn't get away.

Elinalise, to
Roxy Migurdia
 and previously to
Zenith Greyrat

Elinalise Dragonroad
 (
エリナリーゼ・ドラゴンロード
,

Erinarīze Doragonrōdo
)
 is a former member of
Paul
's party, cursed with an affliction that forces her to regularly have sexual intercourse. Following the
Teleport Incident
, she helped
Roxy
 search for
Rudeus
' family and later joined him at the
Ranoa Magic Academy
, where she fell in love with
Cliff
 after he found a remedy for her
curse
.

Appearance






Elinalise in Volume 5



Like many of her race, Elinalise is shown to be a beautiful and youthful-looking elf of 200+ years. She often sports white-blonde hair in heavily defined ringlets. In body, she has a curvy figure with small breasts, wide hips and shapely legs. Her eyes are a light reddish-brown and she sported the signature pointy ears, customary of all elf kind. She sported black shorts and frilled stockings that ran up to the mid-thigh. In addition to this, she wore gold-colored bands around her forearms and her top was of a small red and white corset and is always seen in her battle attire with her Estoc and Buckler.

Personality

Elinalise is erotic, lustful, and carefree. She does however possess somewhat of a maiden's heart. She is aware of the reputation her promiscuity creates and is conscientious of it regarding the children and grandchildren she has - for example, she tended to be aloof towards her granddaughter Sylphiette as to keep her granddaughter from being affected by her reputation. After
Cliff
 says that he will try his hardest to remove her curse, she falls in love with him and tries to remain faithful to him as much as possible. Though he allows her to continue sleeping with other men until he creates a garment to help surpass it; afterwards, Elinalise convinces him to finally consummate their romance (having starving for him in her heart, rather than carnally like other men).

She notably never tried to seduce
Rudeus
 when they traveled; largely because of the erectile dysfunction caused by his
Eris
 trauma and hating the idea of becoming family with
Paul
. Though she did
beg
 him to stop at towns, so she could sleep around to sate her curse.

Background

She was found over 200 years ago in a Magic Crystal inside of a Labyrinth by
Perugius
. She had no memory of who she was. She was taken to a Elf town where she would eventually recover and get married. As a side effect of being in a Magic Crystal, she became cursed to need sex. The sperm of the men would fertilize the Magic Crystals inside of her. She would then give those crystals to her husband to sell. One day, while leaving the village to sell the crystals, he was robbed and killed. Five days later, she started attacking men who didn't mind having sex with her. After doing this a few times, the women of the village kicked her out. She worked as a prostitute for a while until then she became an adventurer.

She joined Paul's party
Fangs of the Black Wolf
 as a warrior. Following the departure of Paul and
Zenith
 from the party, the group was then disbanded.

Plot






Elinalise with Roxy and Tallhand heading to the Demon Continent



After the
Teleport Incident
, Elinalise accepted
Paul's
 request of finding his family without him knowing. Together with
Roxy
 and
Talhand
, they began a journey throughout the
Demon Continent
 in search of Paul's family.

After Roxy learns the location of Zenith, they part ways where Roxy and Tallhand heads to
Millishion
 to inform Paul while Elinalise finds
Rudeus
 and informs him as well. She also urges him to live his own life and joins him on his travels to the
Magic Academy
. She sees the Academy as a great place to meet men. She eventually meets and falls in love with
Cliff
.

During the wedding reception of Rudeus and
Sylphiette
, Elinalise congratulated them but she suddenly fell in tears. Sylphiette asks her if she is her grandmother which shocks Rudeus and Cliff while Elinalise tried to denies it initially, she eventually admits it and would also take turns on fulfilling Sylphiette's bodyguard duties.

After saving
Zenith
 with Rudeus, she eventually marries Cliff and has a child with him.

Power and Abilities






Elinalise tanking Tarantula Deathlords in the Anime



An experienced adventurer who was able to naturally avoid monster swarms on the way to
Begaritto
. Although her power is described as a bit low by Rudeus and
Atofe
, that's only in comparison to people like
Ghislaine
 or
Zanoba
. She is also described by Rudeus after his first quest with her as first class, suiting her S-class rank. Rudeus also thought she could "go solo" as an adventurer if she wanted. She is a skillful
Tank
 and has good aggro ability and compensates for her lack of power with magic items like her estoc that releases vacuum blades or the gladius she picked up in Lapan that releases shock-waves. She is also very agile as even Atofe compliments her on her footwork after she manages to block her counterattack.

Magic






Elinalise using Ice Smash against Manatite Hydra



Elinalise had to repeat her 3rd year because the Begaritt Labyrinth incident took her away for 6 months. She drops out after getting pregnant. Since the first two years of the
Ranoa's
 curriculum teach elementary magic in the four types of offensive magic plus detoxification and healing, it can be presumed that she is able to do at least that. She is also shown to be able to cast elementary Water Magic against Manatite Hydra.

Curse

Elinalise is afflicted with a curse inherited from being trapped in a labyrinth magic crystal. This curse causes mana to accumulate within her body, which must be crystallized through receiving a male’s sperm. If she fails to receive it, the mana bulges too dangerously within her, ultimately leading to her death. As a result, she produces a mana crystal once per month.

During pregnancy, her condition can be temporarily subsided as the mana flowed into the unborn child instead, eliminating the need for sexual intercourse to avoid death. As result, her children born inherit exceptionally high mana capacity without exception. Thanks to Cliff’s research, a magical device was devised that suppressed the curse—allowing her to go over a year without intercourse by the time Cliff graduated. Because the device requires a high amount of magic power,
Rudeus
 has to charge it himself.

Equipment

Estoc






Elinalise's equipment in the Game



Elinalise wields a thorn-like Estoc, a silver double edge straight sword with a thin blade that she uses elegant techniques matching her extravagant appearance. An Estoc is not a weapon an adventurer normally carries since it is used in duels between nobles of the
Asura Kingdom
 or used with armor in the sword city in the far north. But the Estoc that Elinalise uses is a
Magic Item
 that was found deep within a maze which is far sturdier than normal swords and with a single swing, it can fire off a vacuum that can cut down a tree several meters ahead.

Buckler






Elinalise using her Buckler to bash Manatite Hydra's head



Elinalise also uses a brown buckler with a silver cross which is also a magic item that holds the ability to soften the impact of blows it receives which makes Elinalise a formidable frontliner of her party to distract enemies.

Gladius

Elinalise cutting through an Armored Deathlord with her Gladius
Rudeus using the Gladius to release a Shock Wave upon piercing
1/2

Because of her Estoc being inconvenient against armored monsters in the
Teleportation Labyrinth
, Elinalise purchased a one handed Gladius, another Magic Item that releases a Shock Wave when it pierces something. Although the damage is not high, it can be used in an instant to send an opponent flying backwards to make some distance. Because of the ability's practical use it has a high purchase price that Elinalise paid with several magic crystals.

Achievements

Attains Rank S
Adventurer

Quotes

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Trivia

In the alternate reality where Roxy is killed by the
Human God
, after Cliff is killed, she leaves Rudeus and is never seen again, presumably to go back to being an adventurer.

It was previously observed that she carries a lot of magic crystals and by trading and selling them, she seems to never run into any financial problems. This is probably due to her curse by which she transforms sperm into magic crystals.

She laments about her past as a prostitute and promiscuousness as she believes that this may affect the opinion of others about her descendants (
Sylphy
) and that's why she tries to hide any relationship with them.

She becomes Roxy's teacher in sexual techniques, something that bothered Sylphy since Elinalise never wanted to teach her anything.

Despite the fact that Cliff managed to create an artifact (panties) that stops the curse for up to a year, her libido doesn't drop, requesting that Cliff fulfill his marital duties daily. Possibly due to her body having grown used to being carnally hungry for so many years.

It is implied that her true identity might be Laplace's servant Rostelina, who was sealed in a magic crystal to condition her into a vessel that could resupply
Orsted
 with mana
.

References