Information

Story

Relationships

Appearance

Family

Cliff Grimoire

Elinalise and Cliff in the Anime
Rudeus introducing Cliff to Elinalise
Cliff telling Elinalise they will get married
Elinalise returning to Cliff after her journey from Rapan
Elinalise and Cliff's wedding in the Light Novel
1/5

Cliff Grimoire is Elinalise's love interest and later her husband who calls her Lise. On their first meeting, Elinalise is reluctant to accept his feelings but agreed to give him a chance and explain her situation as suggested by Rudeus. They begin dating after Cliff resolves to remove the
curse
 afflicting her.

When Elinalise decides to go to
Rapan
 to assist Paul in rescuing Zenith, she initially plans to leave Cliff but when Cliff tells her that they will get married with a
Milis Religion Wedding Ceremony
 when she returns and gives her a prototype of the
Curse Supressing Tool
 for her journey. Elinalise is so touched by this that she happily accepts in tears.
 Since then, Elinalise became devoted and truly loves Cliff that she is proud to tell Paul how great Cliff is.

Clive Grimoire

Her son between her and Cliff

Laws

A son between her and a unknown man.

Sylphiette Greyrat





Elinalise and Sylphiette in the Anime



Sylphiette is Elinalise's granddaughter on behalf of her son Laws while she considers herself distant from her family due to her curse. Laws actually told Sylphiette who her grandmother is and her past. During Sylphiette's wedding Elinalise tries to congratulate Sylphiette and Rudeus but is overcome with emotions to which Sylphiette asks her if she is her grandmother. Elinalise tried to deny this but she is already in tears but after talking it over
, they are able to reconcile and are in good terms that Elinalise would occasionally takeover Sylphiette's bodyguard duty.

Lucy Greyrat

Her great-granddaughter on behalf of her granddaughter Sylphiette

Friends

Roxy M. Greyrat

Her friend.

Paul Greyrat





Elinalise meeting with Paul in Rapan



Elinalise and Paul are members of the
Fangs of the Black Wolf
 Party until they disbanded where the fallout causes Elinalise to avoid seeing Paul as much as possible
 and while she initially does not want Paul to become his "son" that she avoids seducing Rudeus, she willingly accepts this for the sake of Rudeus and Sylphiette when they got married.
 When Elinalise meets with Paul, she accepts his apology and later tells Paul that she considers him, to be her son that shocks Paul when he finds out that Sylphiette is Elinalise's grand daughter.

Geese

An old friend.

Ghislaine Dedoldia

An old friend.

Tallhand

An old friend.

Zenith Greyrat

An old friend.

Others

References