Information

Chronology

Powers and Abilities

Relationships

Gallery

This article
lacks information
 and requires expansion. Please
expand this page
 to include missing information to help improve the article.

Family

Sauros Boreas Greyrat





Sauros praising Eris and Rudeus in the Anime



Sauros is Eris' grandfather who Eris first imitates from his manners of speaking loudly and even resorting to violence. When Rudeus first meets Eris, Sauros is among the few people Eris likes and obeys while Sauros in turn spoils her and grants her requests no matter how unreasonable it is. After seeing how Eris has changed under Rudeus' guidance, Sauros grants Eris' request who has not made any unreasonable request in a while to have the
Aqua Heartia
 created to be Rudeus' present for his 10th birthday.

Rudeus Greyrat

Rudeus using X-Healing on Eris
Eris and Rudeus escaping captivity in the Anime
Eris and Rudeus training in Swordsmanship in the Anime
Eris and Rudeus dancing together in the Anime
Eris and Rudeus during the Teleport Incident
Eris and Rudeus in the Demon Continent
Eris consoling Rudeus in the Anime
Eris and Rudeus spending the night together
1/8

Rudeus is Eris' childhood teacher and later husband. In
Volume 2
, he taught her arithmetic, beginner level fire magic, and reading and writing. Eris is initially hostile to Rudeus and would also be violent towards him but throughout the duration of their time spent together in the
Citadel of Roa
, Eris would become less feral and warm up to
Rudeus
. After Eris' 10th birthday, Eris is able to successfully complete dancing through Rudeus' method and would openly praise him and also imitate his manners which also noticed by Eris' family that
Philip Boreas Greyrat
, sends a letter to
Paul Greyrat
 for an arranged marriage between them
 and Eris would later arrange a party for Rudeus' 10th birthday.

After the
Teleport Incident
, Rudeus and Eris are teleported to the
Demon Continent
 and begins to travel with
Ruijerd
 where they established the
Dead End
 party but deep down inside, she is afraid that Rudeus might abandon her so she strives to become stronger and the two get closer but this fear still lingers throughout their journey. Around this time, she developed a close bond with Rudeus and even developed romantic feelings for him and believes that as long as she is with Rudeus, they can do anything and everything will be alright.

But after
Orsted defeats their party effortlessly
, and witnessing Rudeus nearly die before her, she developed an inferiority complex from feeling helpless until they return to Roa where she learns that Sauros, Philip and Hilda have died and the remaining Boreas Family refuses to adopt her. Feeling Rudeus is all she have left, she spent the night with Rudeus and lost her virginity but realizes afterwards that she must become strong wants to stand beside Rudeus as equals and asks Ghislaine to bring her to the
Holy Land of Swords
 to train in the Sword God Style while the memory of feeling helpless as Rudeus nearly died still in her mind as she trains to cut down Orsted and hopes that she will meet Rudeus again. Her sudden departure caused a big misunderstanding between the two in which he thought that Eris left him due to his subpar bed skills. It led to his severe depression and impotence until he was cured by to
Sylphiette
's "comforting" actions.

Eventually, Rudeus met his
future self
, who warned him about the murderous tragedy that would befall on everyone he cared about, including his families and Eris. Future Rudeus gave his diary to Rudeus, which allowed Rudeus to send Eris a letter in this timeline. Future Rudeus advised Rudeus to be careful and to not expose
Hitogami
's true intentions to his allies. Rudeus sent Eris a letter expressing that he was receptive with accepting Eris into his family, and that he was going to challenge Orsted. The result was that Orsted joined Rudeus's side to fight against Hitogami in the future. Eris would eventually get the letter and come to his aid. After the battle, in which Rudeus lost: they would get married and Eris would have two children,
Ars Greyrat
 and
Christina Greyrat.

After getting married, Eris continues to accompany Rudeus as his bodyguard while doing missions for Orsted except when she is pregnant. When Rudeus fondles her breasts, she would occasionally punch him in the face and when it comes to raising children, Eris would usually discipline them while Rudeus will simply talk to them when they misbehave.

Paul Greyrat





Eris angry at Paul in the Anime



Paul:"What's this Rudi, hiding behind a woman, you've become quite the lady-killer haven't you?"
Eris:"Rudeus isn't hiding behind me! I'm hiding Rudeus! From a worthless father!"

After the reunion of Rudeus and Paul at
Millishion
 resulting with Rudeus being depressed, Eris is angry at Paul when she is told what happened. When Paul visits Rudeus again, Eris stops him from approaching and is about to attack Paul until Ruijerd stops her and brings her out of the inn.
 Paul later gives the money of 20 Royal Notes (1 million Yen) to Rudeus given by the
Boreas Family
 to search for missing members like Eris so he can bring Eris back to the
Citadel of Roa
. Paul also reveals that Philip plans that Rudeus will be married into the Boreas Family with Eris as his wife prior to the Teleport Incident.

Ars Greyrat

Ars is Eris' first son with Rudeus. He was born longer or less than 10 days before Rudeus came back from Shrione. His appearance resembles Eris, with the same red hair and green eyes. Like any other greyrat male, he is perverted like his father who likes pretty girls.

"Note: This section is under construction and revision."

Christina Greyrat

The second daughter with Rudeus.

"Note: This section is under construction and revision."

Friends

Ghislaine Dedoldia

Eris and Ghislaine in the Anime
Eris and Ghislaine sparring in the Anime
Eris reuniting with Ghislaine
1/3

Ghislaine is Eris' teacher in the
Sword God Style
 since she was 5 years old. Eris is initially hostile to Ghislaine and their first sword lesson is what Ghislaine describes as "painful love" that Eris barely able to walk then tries to attack Ghislaine with a wooden sword at night but was unable to get her revenge. Eris became obedient towards Ghislaine but still waiting for revenge for months but they eventually grew closer since they have the same behavior in their childhood.

Ruijerd Superdia

Eris meeting Ruijerd in the Anime
Eris and Rudeus travelling together with Ruijerd
Eris and Ruijerd sparring in the Anime
Ruijerd watching over Eris while in Millishion
Ruijerd greeting Eris after her mission
Eris in tears when Ruijerd is leaving them
1/6

Ruijerd is Eris' mentor and friend. On their first meeting, Ruijerd rescues Eris and Rudeus who is teleported to the
Demon Continent
 in the aftermath of the
Teleport Incident
 where Eris is frightened to tears of Ruijerd due to stories being told about the
Superd Tribe
 during her childhood.
 After learning that these stories were not true, they got along well with the encourgement of Rudeus despite the awkward start since Ruijerd does not talk much. During their journey, Ruijerd trains with Eris who acknowledges him to be her teacher in combat after Ghislaine and Ruijerd later recognizes her as a
Warrior
.

Nina Farion

Rival in the Holy land of Sword, they hated each other at first but when they got older, they became friends.

Isolte Cruel

Rival to Eris and Nina; brought in by
Gal Farion
 to train the two against
Water-God Style
. They have friendly relations and have no hostile intentions towards each other.

Lineana Dedoldia

"Note: This section is under construction and revision."

Minitona Dedoldia

"Note: This section is under construction and revision."

Pursena Adoldia

"Note: This section is under construction and revision."

Tersena Adoldia

"Note: This section is under construction and revision."

Others

Auber Corvette

Eris and Auber sparring in the Manga
Eris and Auber in the Light Novel
1/2

Auber Corvette is Eris' trainer in the
North God Style
 which Eris took 1 year to become a North Saint. Eris first meets Auber at the front of the Sword God Style Dojo where it immediately turned to a fight and both are ready to kill each other until Gal stops them.

"Note: This section is under construction and revision."

Gal Farion

Her Second master in the
Sword God Style
.

"Note: This section is under construction and revision."

Luke Notos Greyrat

Her husband in the original timeline.

"Note: This section is under construction and revision."

Orsted

She holds hatred for him due to Rudeus being beaten twice by him, but her murderous urges are stopped by Rudeus mostly due to Orsted becoming an ally.

"Note: This section is under construction and revision."

References