Eris's Depression
 (
エリスの憂鬱
,

Erisu no Yūutsu
)
 is the tenth chapter of the
Mushoku Tensei

manga adaptation
.

Cover Characters

Rudeus Greyrat

Ghislaine Dedoldia

Summary

After Rudeus informs Ghislaine of his idea for a day off from studies, the two escort Eris on a shopping spree in town the next day. Still needing to explain the need for reprieve, Ghislaine still can't understand Eris was just gaining stress from continuous studies. While Rudeus also advises Ghislaine take a break, he's happy that he too can have a day off. Later, Rudeus was planning to do some independent reading, but saw Eris running off during an etiquette lesson with Miss Edna, which lead to her pleading Rudeus to encourage Eris take in her studies.

Finding her in a stable, she kicks him in the head and tells him she refuses to continue being forced into scenarios she doesn't feel comfortable with. Hearing her words, and remembering his brothers in his old life, Rudeus shares how he once gave up on things midway and regretted the choice. So he advises that she continue, so that she'll feel a sense of accomplishment having done so in hindsight. Once she sees his point, Rudeus asks she return to her dance lessons- while positioned directly atop her. Kicking him off her, she agrees to go back to her dance lessons and demands Rudeus accompany her.

There, while Rudeus does superb, he figures out a trick to help her step to the rhythm of the dancing. With a blindfold and using claps, he has her mimic feint maneuvers like her lessons with Ghislaine, saying go as the "feint" and the claps being the "attacks". With that, Eris flawlessly danced, and Rudeus reminds her that she can incorporate lessons from subject into another. When Edna inquires how Rudeus reached his solution, his explanation of sword arts using dance astounds her and Rudeus discovers this world has no sword dancing arts. Earning praise from Edna, Eris also voices her amazement at Rudeus's ability, with them looking forward to Eris dancing at her 10th birthday celebration. At the celebration, Rudeus is among the crowd and is impressed by Eris's arrival,

Appearances

Characters

Rudeus Greyrat

Ghislaine Dedoldia

Edna Rayrune

Eris Boreas Greyrat

Philip Boreas Greyrat

Paul Greyrat
 (Flashback)

Zenith Greyrat
 (Flashback)

Sauros Boreas Greyrat

Skills

Regions

Others

Differences from Light Novel

Trivia

To Be Added.

Navigation

Template:JuvenileP