Information

Chronology

Powers and Abilities

Relationships

Gallery

This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

Physical Abilities





Eris battling assassins in the Anime



Rudeus considers Eris a prodigy in terms of raw talent. Through out her life, Eris is trained by prominent people in the sword, mainly in the Sword God Style by
Ghislaine
 in her youth, by
Ruijerd Superdia
 after the
Teleport Incident
 and in North God and Water God Styles during her time at the Holy Land of Swords. Because of this, Eris possess physical prowess, speed and endurance capable of fighting multiple enemies regardless of their swordsmanship rank. Eris is also very nimble and agile, being able to do acrobatic moves and jump at heights twice or more then her height which makes her an unpredictable enemy on where she can attack.

Sword God Style





Longsword of Silence



Sword God Gal Farion took interest in training Eris after hearing her intent to cut down the Dragon God, a dream that they both share. After completing her training in the Holy Land of Swords, Eris has attained Sword King rank. When she became Sword King, Gal Farion offered her the chance to challenge him to become Sword God, an opportunity that not even Ghislaine was given when she first became Sword King. Eris' talent was so greatly recognized by Gal Farion that if Eris actually wished to, Gal Farion would have allowed her to become Sword Emperor by fighting Ghislaine who was also a Sword King. Eris declined, but in recognition of her skill, she was awarded "Sword Mastery" -- a title that had never been bestowed to the current Sword Emperors and Sword Kings.

North God Style

On her first few years in the Holy Land of Swords, Eris is trained by
Auber Corvette
 the North Emperor in the North God Style. After one year, Eris reached the rank of North Saint.

Superd Bloodlust Technique






Eris releasing Bloodlust in the Manga



Ruijerd taught Eris a high-level
Superd
 technique to unleash her bloodlust (also known as killing intent) like using her gaze to provoke her opponents. This release of bloodlust caused her opponent to sense violent emotions as if they are encountering a monster on the roadside when they see Eris, which causes even
Reida Reia
 to have goosebumps on their first meeting and almost reflexively draw her sword which is unusual for a Water God Style user to attack first.

Presence Search






Eris searching for the presence of other adventurers



Ruijerd also taught Eris how to search for the presence of others by staying still which allows her to perceive sound, her surroundings and even the flow of
Mana
. Eris practices this everyday that she is able to sense even the faintly audible sound of weapons clashing from afar.

Magic Abilities

Beginner Magic

She reached beginner level magic after being taught by Rudeus. She can conjure fire, appeared to be used to burn Gal Farion after she defeated him.

Equipment

Nameless Sword


https://mushokutensei.fandom.com/wiki/File:MT-AN-S1-E09-GIF-01.webm



Eris' first sword



A
sword
 made by Yulian Jalisco that doesn't lose it's edge. Rudeus received it from
Rowin Migurdia
 in Volume 3 as a thanks for telling him of
Roxy
's whereabouts which he then gives to Eris. The sword is a single edge falchion with a curved blade where the edge side is vastly wider than the back side and has two red ornaments on its blade ridge. The blade is also attached to both ends of the cross guard and has a knuckle bow. She fights with it using forward grip style and sheathes it horizontally behind her waist.

Phoenix Elegant Dragon Sword






Phoenix Elegant Dragon Sword in the Light Novel



Dragon Emperor made and gave this
sword
 to the first Sword God. It has the ability to nullify, or weaken (e.g. for strong opponents such as
Orsted
),
Battle Aura
. Eris received it from
Gal Farion
, the current Sword God, in volume 16 as a gift for being titled Sword King and the need of having a longer sword.

Yubi Ori [Prominent]






Prominent in the Light Novel



Yubi Ori or Prominent is a
sword
 made by Yulian Jalisco, one of the 48 demon swords.
Rudeus
 received it from
Orsted
 which he gave to Eris and is sheathed at the right side of her waist. It is worth about 100,000 Asura gold coins supposed to be for funding Rudeus' missions as Orsted's subordinate but was unable to sell it due to difficulty on finding a buyer at a short time.

References