Family Meeting and Growing Pains
 (
家族会議と伸び悩み
,

Kazoku kaigi to nobiyami
)
 is the fifth chapter of the
Mushoku Tensei

manga adaptation
.

Cover Characters

Rudeus Greyrat

Sylphiette

Summary

After Rudeus discovers that Sylph is a girl and her full name is Sylphiette, he acts rather awkwardly with her until she tells him that he only need act normal. Given his definition of "normal", Rudeus tones it down further just in case. After that event, Paul mocks Rudeus for confusing Sylphie with a boy. When he tries to give tips of how to get cute girl, a gardening Zenith reprimands him until Lilia appears to stop her due to her two-months along pregnancy. As everyone is happy with the news, Lilia suddenly vomits in front of them. Lilia announced that she is also pregnant, Rudeus unsurprisingly looks to Paul, who confesses to the family that he may be the father, to which Zenith slaps him. In a family meeting, Zenith asks of Lilia's plans after having her baby, and Lilia aims to help Zenith's childbirth before leaving after having her own baby. With Zenith unconfortable with this, Rudeus forms a plan knowing that Paul was at fault, as well as how Zenith and Lilia already have a long friendship for over six years. Acting innocent, Rudeus asks why everyone is upset when he's going to be having two sisters, and leads to a conclusion that Paul threatened Lilia because he knew "her weakness". He draws a conclusion that all fault lay with Paul, exonerating Lilia of blame. Thus Zenith, moved by her son's words, decides to let Lilia stay; much to the maid's surprised joy.

Around Rudeus' seventh birthday, his sisters Norn and Aisha are born healthy, while his mentoring Sylphy has her really progress in the past couple of years compared to himself, finding he has stagnated since Roxy's leave. When Paul arrives and delivers Rudeus a letter from his teacher, he reads that she tells him of her position as a court mage of the Kingdom of Shirone and she was promoted to King Class Water Magic. Further into the letter, she writes of the expectations that she had for his growth was more impressive. Rudeus starts feeling that he has peaked with his sword and magic skills, he makes up his mind up that he's ready to go to the school. While he would want to leave Buena Village, Sylphy clings to him begging him not to leave her, so Rudeus promises that he'll stay by her side. Paul eavesdrops on the children from behind the wall, and silently hearing the conversation gives him an idea.

At lunch, Rudeus informs Paul how his magic studies are stagnant and how he would like to attend the Ranoa University of Magic. However, because Sylphy doesn't want him to leave nor can she afford it, he requests that Paul pay both their tuitions. Paul immediately refuses his request because his sword training is not complete, while also that they don't have the money for both and that he is too young to leave. Undeterred, Rudeus asks if he can find him a job as tutor or magician to earn himself the tuition for Sylphy. With Paul confirming Rudeus' determination, he asks his son to come to the garden, where he asks what Rudeus would think if he ordered him to leave Sylphy behind. When Rudeus immediately answered that he will not like the idea, Paul finds the answer predictable and takes a practice sword to quickly attack Rudeus. As he does, a catwoman approaches the house and finds Paul and Rudeus' fight commence.

Appearances

Characters

Rudeus Greyrat

Zenith Greyrat

Paul Greyrat

Lilia

Sylphiette

Norn Greyrat

Aisha Greyrat

Roxy Migurdia

Ghislaine Dedoldia
 (Cameo)

Skills

Regions

Buena Village

Fittoa Region

Others

Differences from Light Novel

The PoV of Paul reprimanding Rudeus because of his fight with the other children was cut.

Trivia

To Be Added.

Navigation

Template:JuvenileP