This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!







Fate
, also known as
Destiny
 is the rough history of the path an individual takes in their life.

Background

Laplace
: "May the fortunes of war be with you."
First Dragon God
: "everything shall be left to fate"

-The First Dragon God and Laplace's final farewells to each other

Like
Mana
, Fate is possessed by all beings in the universe of
Mushoku Tensei
 even during the
Six-Faced World
 Era but very few beings are able to see fate and try to influence it.

Due to Orsted being in a timeloop made by the
First Dragon God
, Orsted has seen the past and knows the future of nearly everyone in the
Human World
, as such he refers to the original timeline history to be pre-ordained by Fate and he acts to ensure that original timeline is followed as much as possible against his upcoming battle against Hitogami.

Strong Fate

The path of history of individuals who are protected by a strong fate's cannot be altered easily and despite multiple attempts to alter it, not even by
Gods
. But the strength of fate can also be ambiguous especially during pregnancy of the individual. Another exception is when a massive calamity occurs like the
Teleport Incident
 which could also cause the death even those protected by a strong fate.

Notable Individuals with Strong Fate

Rudeus Greyrat

"With each person he encounters, the world greatly changes"

-
Orsted

Rudeus is protected by an unusually strong fate that when
Hitogami
 tries to influence the course of events involving him, it rarely works out. This strong fate also causes the fate of his family and future wive's fate to also greatly change and in turn, his strong fate is also inherited by his children and descendants.
.

Orsted who has knowledge on the supposed fate of most people of the
Human World
 in his numerous time loops believe that it was because of their encounter with Rudeus has caused massive changes in their fate, like
Isolte Cruel
 and
Doga
 getting married which has a very small chance to occur in his other time loops because of their circumstances. As such, Osted's plans for the next hundred years to defeat Hitogami has been thrown off the rails that he wonders where to begin on the next loop since his writings to record the many changes on the current time loop with Rudeus could not keep up. This leads him to also think if there is even a point of writing the changes since the chance Rudeus existing on the next loop is quite small, making the notes pointless otherwise, if Rudeus exist on the next loop, his recording will prove to be a powerful weapon.

Sylphiette

Sylphiette: "Anyway, I think thats the whole reason its fun to think about how things might have turned out. Because I'm really happy with how they did."
Eris: "...I wonder if I'll feel the same once I have a child too."

In the timeline that Rudeus does not exist, Sylphiette became the apprentice of Roxy and later becomes an
Adventurer
. Due to her green hair, she is still hated by people but in the end, she conquered several notable labyrinths and made a name for herself as one of the world's most prominent dungeon explorer and to Orsted's knowledge she never got married.

While in the timeline where Sylphiette meets Rudeus, she learns
Chantless casting
 even for her
Healing Magic
 that not even Rudeus can do and eventually marries Rudeus. Due to her strong fate, she became
Ariel Anemoi Asura
's
Guardian Magician
 and protected her from all assassinations until they made it to
Sharia
.

Roxy Migurdia

Rudeus: "Huh. Okay. So Roxy and I were destined to get married then? That makes me kinda happy."
Hitogami: "Can't say I feel the same."

In the timeline that Rudeus does not exist, Roxy trains Sylphiette as her apprentice and like Sylphiette she never marries.

But in another timeline with Rudeus, they did get married but Roxy and her supposed
child
 dies due to
Magic Stone Disease
 causing Rudeus to fall into depression and death of most of his friends and family. When Rudeus discovers what caused Roxy's death, he is already
old
 but he manages to
travel back in time
 to warn his younger self to prevent the disease from happening before passing away.

Heeding the warning of his future self, Rudeus manages to prevent Roxy's death but Hitogami angrily confronts him in his dream on how his plan to kill Roxy has failed. Rudeus several proposal but Hitogami refuses as fate cannot be easily changed by his initial proposals. In the end, a compromise is made where Rudeus must kill Orsted and in return, Hitogami will leave him and his family alone.

Eris Boreas Greyrat

Orsted: "Eris Boreas Greyrat... is Rudeus so precious to you? what of Luke?"
Eris: "Luke?"
Orsted: "The man who was destined to be your husband."
Eris:"That's news to me."

In the timeline that Rudeus does not exist, Eris is skilled with a sword that she eventually becomes a
Sword Saint
 and despite her beautiful appearance and impressive status, her fiery personality earned her the title "Red Lion". The Asuran Guard selects her for her sword skills to be part of their ranks and that is how she met
Luke Notos Greyrat
 which is love at first sight for him. Despite being punched numerous times, Luke continues to pursue Eris and that softened her heart and the two eventually gets married and were extremely affectionate with each other. As such, the
Boreas Family
 headed by
Philip Boreas Greyrat
 and
Sauros Boreas Greyrat
 joins the
Princess Ariel Faction
 while Eris and Luke works together to protect Ariel from assassination attempts numerous times, securing Ariel's path to kinghood.

Ariel Anemoi Asura

Orsted:"To turn Asura Kingdom's second princess, Ariel Anemoi Asurra, into the Asura Kingdom's queen."
Rudeus:"Ooh"
Orsted:"If it is necessary, we will manipulate her like a puppet."

In Orsted's original history, Ariel becomes queen of Asura Kingdom and is protected by a considerably powerful fate. In order for Ariel to become queen, the power of 3 people are needed: Derrick Redbat, Eris Boreas Greyrat,
Tristina Purplehorse
 who will testify to cause the downfall of Prime Minister
Darius Silva Ganius
.

Derrick Redbat

"I supposedly had fate on my side protecting me from death as well, but if Derrick's bloody end was any indication, I'd better not let it go to my head."

-Rudeus Greyrat

In Orsted's original history, Derrick Redbat is the
Guardian Magician
 of Princess Ariel and during her fated meeting with
Perugius Dola
, Derrick successfully persuades him to back Ariel on becoming queen of Asura Kingdom. Derrick would continue to be Ariel's advisor and eventually become the prime minister.

But despite being protected by a strong fate, Derrick is killed during the Teleport Incident so the plan of Rudeus and Orsted to make Ariel queen has changed since coming to
Sharia
 and her connections to numerous talented personnel has been established.

Leo





Leo watching over Lara in the Light Novel



"The Human God cannot manipulate inhuman beings. Furthermore, he cannot manipulate a great number of people at the same time. As long as we move, he will have his hands full with our interference. Based on his personality, that will be more than enough prevention."

-Orsted

Leo is the sacred beast of the
Beast Race
 who is protected by a strong fate who is born once every several hundred years. Since ancient times, the appearance of Leo means that the world will be in crisis. After becoming an adult, Leo is fated to set out on a journey together with a
hero
 and save the world.

In order to protect Rudeus' family from Hitogami's manipulation, Orsted instructs Rudeus to use a guardian beast protect his family by
Summoning Magic
 which in turn, Hitogami won't be able to make a move against them.
 Thus, Leo is summoned by Rudeus and since then, Leo has been watching over Roxy until Lara is born
 and they are always seen together.

Weak Fate

Notable Individuals with Weak Fate

Miko of Memory

Despite her power, the Miko of Memory has a weak fate that regardless of the time loop Orsted remembers, she would die around the age of 10 and would never live to see age 30. Thus, the chance of the Miko of Memory being an apostle of Hitogami is close to zero.
 In order to protect her and as thanks for revealing the memories of
Zenith
 with her power, Rudeus lets her join the
ORSTED Corporation
 as a subordinate of Orsted and as additional protections, Rudeus gives her an emblem of the Dragon God and also summons a guardian beast to protect her, similar to how Leo protects his family.

Luke Notos Greyrat

Rudeus: "The Human God may have considered that we'd discover his connection with Luke. Perhaps his entire aim is to goad us into killing him."
Orsted: "That's perfectly possible. The Ariel that I knew valued Luke greatly. Without him, she may not succeed on the path towards kingship."

Despite having a weak Fate. Hitogami turned Luke into his disciple to monitor Rudeus. Throughout their journey back to Asura Kingdom, Luke has been suspicious of Rudeus despite Luke asking first to help Ariel become Queen.

History

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

References