Fighting God's Golden Armor is a
magic tool
 created by Demon-Dragon God
Laplace
. The person who wears it is considered the "
Fighting God
".

Backround





Golden Armor worn by Badigadi



Dragon  God Laplace created the Golden Armor sometime before the
Second Great Human-Demon War
. Laplace used the armor during the early stages of the war, but soon realized the armor had become sentient and was trying to take him over, which caused Laplace to seal away the dangerous tool he had created. It was later stolen by
Badigadi
 at the behest of
Hitogami
, and used to defeat and split Dragon God Laplace into two different entities, breaking the world in the process.

Many  Years later, the armor was once again used by Badigadi to fight Rudeus and his allies and later briefly by
Aleksander Ryback
 to fight against
Orsted
.

Characteristics and Abilities





Golden Armor design



Characteristics

Sentient
 - The armor is infused with such a monumental amount of mana that it developed its own consciousness.

Shape Change
  - The armor will change its shape to fit the size and body type of whoever wears it.

Self Repair
 -  If part of the armor is destroyed it will reform itself.

Abilities

Great Power Boost
 - Whoever wears the Golden Armor will feel neither pain, or fatigue and will have their power increased across the board substantially.

Magic Resistance Aura
 - The golden light radiating from the armor will render most magic ineffective, however there is a limit and some high level spells might be able to get through.

Battle Master
 - Regardless of the wearers knowledge when it comes to battle, the armor itself is a battle master. It knows how to use, counter and adapt to countless weapons it has trained with and can imitate many martial arts. The armor could analyze the flow of battle and has a repertoire of over 1000 secret techniques (including one that was used to disrupt Laplace's reincarnation technique)

Drawbacks

Life Force powered
 - The Golden Armor is powered by the wearer's life-force and will eventually kill the wearer, with even
Orsted
 dying from it when he tried to wear it in one timeline. The only known exception are members of the immortal demon clan, since they cannot die at all.

Heal Seal
 - Since the armor cancels magic cast on the wearer, it also prevents healing magic from being used on them. However, races with innate regenerative abilities, like members of the immortal demon clan, can bypass this.

Frenzy Inducement
 - The Golden Armor is cursed; the longer one wears the armor, the more the armor suppresses the wearers will, replacing it with its own, causing the wearer to become insane and battle hungry.

Trivia

At some point,
Orsted
 attempted to wear the Golden Armor, but he did not know how to take it off so it eventually killed him.

References