This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

"I'll send my child ten-thousand years into the future. In the meantime, I want you to find Hitogami's true identity, his whereabouts, his weaknesses... Find a way to defeat him and convey that to my child!"

First Dragon God giving Laplace's mission

The
First Dragon God
 is the first generation Dragon God whose name is not revealed. Under his leadership,
Dragon Tribe
 became the most powerful beings in the Dragon World and through this, he is recognized as the ruler of the Dragon World. He is also the husband of
Lunaria
 and the father of
Orsted
.

Appearance

At a glance, the First Dragon God is easily seen as the leader of the Dragon Tribe to anyone who sees him for the first time and his most outstanding features were his golden eyes, he has a silver beard and skin covered in silver scales with long fangs and claws. He is a little bigger than the rest of the Dragon Tribe and his gaze is sharp, but filled with unfathomable warmness.

Personality

The First Dragon God was a wise and benevolent figure. Like Lunaria, he deeply cared for his people. After personally saving
Laplace
 from the verge of death, The First Dragon God was willing to raise him as his own son despite him being a dragon and demon hybrid. As such, he was worshipped and trusted by his people that was seen in their gesture of giving a salute of the highest honor for the Dragon Tribe and they addressed him as "Dragon God-sama"
.

After Lunaria was killed, his personality took a dark turn and became consumed by his fury, leading to him destroying four out of six worlds in the
Six-Faced World
.

Background

Like most of the First Generation Gods, the First Dragon God originated from the
Creator God
 who created the Six-Faced World where he is tasked with managing the dangerous balances of the Dragon World. Because of this divine origin, they became known as Gods and the First Dragon God worked diligently with the Dragon Tribe to make the world prosper.

But despite the Dragon Tribe having a long lifespan and powerful, their civilization was unable to thrive and their civilization remained primitive for a long time. Perhaps out of pity or frustration, the Human God meets with the other Gods and suggests that the Gods meet on a regular basis of information exchange to help each of their world prosper. In exchange, the Dragon Tribe taught the use of Battle Aura and thanks to this, the Dragon Tribe learns the use of words and letters to communcal living and forming a social order that gave the light of civilization to the Dragon Tribe.

The First Dragon God changed the life of the Dragon Tribe who were hiding in caverns by the hillside, living only where they could not be caught by large dragons in the Dragon World. He taught them how to use
Dragon Battle Aura
 and by grouping together, finding strength in numbers, and preying on the dragons, the Dragon Tribe stood as the strongest in the Dragon World. The Dragon Tribe would eventually conquer the largest mountain in the Dragon World, Dragon Roar Mountain and from there, they built their capital city Kayos from its hollowed out center with the First Dragon God's home at its center and later expanded to an additional 122 towns.

To protect the Dragon World, the First Dragon God appoints the five most powerful individuals among the Dragon Tribe and they are called the Five Dragon Generals. On one of their meetings, the Human God introduces her daughter to the First Dragon God for an experiment if its possible for Gods to have children with other races and what power will they have, although the First Dragon God initially did not love Lunaria, he grew to love her when she gave him a child and he makes plans to prepare the Dragon World for his birth.

Plot

On his travels to the Demon World, the First Dragon God found Laplace who lives at the edge of the world and at the brink of death after being attacked by a hydra and brings him to the Dragon World and is welcomed by him and Lunaria as their own son despite having blood of both demons and dragons and their child is about to be born.
 After a few years, he asks
Dora
 to train Laplace to become a Dragon Warrior and would receive reports from Dora and Laplace of his progress where Laplace would become a renowned dragon trainer through out the Dragon World.

When
Crystal
 died in what looks like a dragon attack, the First Dragon God held a meeting with the remaining Dragon Generals where Laplace serves as a stand-in for Dora who was on pregnancy leave at the time. They concluded that Crystal's death has a possibility that it was done by a demon and when the suggestion that Laplace be assigned to investigate, the other Dragon Generals strongly objected but in the end they agreed to let Laplace investigate since.

Another meeting was held after
Necrolia Nacrolia
 the culprit who killed Crystal was captured where Laplace gives his report on his investigation, the Human God giving counsel and his battle and capture of Necrolia. Although the Dragon Generals are urging to go to war against the Demon World, the First Dragon God chose to negotiate with them instead and at the suggestion of
Szilard
, the First Dragon God grants Laplace the title Demon Dragon King and successor of Crystal as Dragon General and becomes his assistant to negotiate with the Demon God.

"Rather than that, look, Demon God, at this man... He's now an important figure in the Dragon World, a living proof that the Dragon Race felt no hostility towards the Demons."

-First Dragon God to Demon God

The First Dragon God attends a meeting with other five
Gods
 at Demon God's castle Gaileck located at its capital city Daileck in the Demon World where they normally trade insults with each other and only the Dragon God and
Human God
 wants peace. The First Dragon God then introduces Laplace to the
Demon God
 and tells him how Laplace has become an important part of the Dragon Tribe and is now a Dragon General despite having blood of Demons and Dragons to dispell the rumor that the Dragon Tribe has no hatred towards Demons. After some further inquiry particularly the death of his son Necrolia which the First Dragon God already told everyone who has knowledge to never expose the truth before the meeting, the Demon God also admits he does not want a war and agrees to have peace between him and the Dragon God and despite the tense situation, the other Gods also does not want a war and agrees to work for peace.

With the Gods agreeing to cooperate with each other, the Dragon World welcome engineers from the other worlds to assist in the technological advancement which is slow for the Dragon Tribe and in return, Dragon Warriors are sent to other worlds to help subdue monsters that are otherwise impossible to defeat and despite teleportation and monster appearances still occurred, they no longer suspect each other.

"How strange. Although everyone of Dragon World I considered my own, but it feels a little special holding this child."

-First Dragon God

The First Dragon God and Laplace returns from the meeting with the Gods but to their surprise, they see the Dragon World having a festival where everyone is jubilant and they are welcomed with a joyous chorus. Having caught on what has happened, the First Dragon God flies at great speed to his mansion and Lunaria welcomes him with their child held in her hand. The First Dragon God then holds on to the child then Lunaria asks him to name the child but the First Dragon God is unusually hesitant to name their child and did not give a name for the time being. All the Gods of the other world also came to give their blessings to the new born child which is a spectacular and majestic moment since Gods do not typically appear in other worlds let alone all six of them in the Dragon World and the peace between Six World continues.

However, the peaceful era of the Six Worlds lasted until the First Dragon God finds Lunaria dead in her room in a pool of her own blood which indicates she died while protecting their child. The First Dragon God is enraged by this and his roar is heard through out the Dragon World that frigtened most of its denizens.
 After Lunaria's funeral rites, a meeting is held with the Dragon Generals presenting their lists of suspects and during this time, the Human God also joins them to reveal that the other worlds are suspicious of the Dragon World and they might have plotted to kill his child but Lunaria was killed during the attempt. Although the First Dragon God is in disbelief of the other world's plot, he commands his Dragon Generals to prepare for war.

The First Dragon God and the Five Dragon Generals goes to the Beast World who greets them with 10,000 troops. The First Dragon God shouts to bring out Lunaria's murderer but the
Beast God
 does not know and the battle begins which lasts for 3 days and 3 nights. The First Dragon God and Beast God attack on each other causes shockwaves that creates several tornadoes but is not enough to penetrate each other's scales nor fur.  On the fourth day both the Gods had sustained enough damage and the battle is settled by the Beast God biting the shoulder of the First Dragon God and it spewed blood but the First Dragon God is waiting for this and he grabs the left and right head of the Pudoria and using his Dragon Battle Aura to tear his body in 2 then slams Beast God to the ground causing a huge crater to form and a shockwave that caused even the Dragon Generals to be blown away. The First Dragon God emerges from the crater and roars then hands Laplace a jewel and goes back to the Dragon World while the destruction of the Beast World begins upon the Beast God's death.

The First Dragon God and the Five Dragon Generals goes to war against the Ocean World and Sky World whose army dyed the sea black and the sky blot out the sky respectively but like the Beast World it is a massacre that eventually resulting to First Dragon God killing of both the
Ocean God
 and the
Sky God
 and the destruction of their world. Despite the victory, the First Dragon God's body is still afflicted by the wounds from his battles from the Gods he defeated. The Beast God's bite on his shoulder is still bleeding, the poison from the Ocean God is eating away his leg and the Sky God's beam of light blinded him on one eye but the war still continues as they prepare for war against the Demon World.

The war between is particularly fierce since the 5 Dragon Generals are matched by the Demon World's 8 Demon Kings, making it impossible to destroy the Demon World. So the First Dragon God also brought the full force of Dragon Warriors to invade the Demon World who in response, the Demon World's fighters are rallied to battle them. The war became a back and forth between invading and defending the Dragon and Demon World and vice versa which raged for decades but eventually take its toll on both sides due to massive casualties caused by the advancement in technologies of both worlds. With the fighting force of the Dragon Tribe nearly depleted, the Dragon Generals luring and isolating one Demon King after another at the suggestion of the Human God, causing the Demon God to appear in battle where the First Dragon God battles him.

The battle between the First Dragon God and Demon God is unusually long because because of the Demon God's power to regenerate his body parts and his other ability to alter his size. On the 100th day of battle, First Dragon God activates the Magic Circle   beneath the feet the the gigantic Demon God which causes the body of the Demon God to rapidly collapse. After, the First Dragon God collapses and the Dragon Generals carried him back to the Dragon World.

"In the end, Dragon God-sama's words were true and we were wrong... thats... great. Betraying Dragon God-sama was a mistake... thats... wonderful..."

-Dora's last words upon learning the truth

The First Dragon is bed ridden after fighting the Demon God and the wounds from the his battle Gods have not yet healed. When Laplace gave his report about his encounter with Necros, the First Dragon God prepares to invade the Human World much to the shock of Laplace and when relayed to the rest of the Dragon Generals, they were shocked as well and  opposed the order.
 The Dragon Generals tried to persuade the First Dragon God to reconsider the invasion but he replied that he will go alone so the Dragon Generals responds that they will stop him by force.

The First Dragon God is shocked by the intention of the Dragon Generals to fight him but accepts their decision. Before the start of the battle, the city of Kayos is evacuated and the First Dragon God asks Laplace what he plans to do to which he responds he will fight beside the First Dragon God. But the First Dragon God instead commands him to protect his son which the latter obeys as they watch the battle begin. The Dragon Generals used the technology they have developed against the demons but despite his injuries from his battle against the other Gods, the First Dragon God defeats the 4 Dragon Generals with most of them being severely injured, even missing limbs. Just as the battle finishes, the Human God strikes the First Dragon God and took out the Divine Jewel inside his body. The Human God then admits that the murder of Lunaria, war between the Gods, destruction of all the other worlds were his plan to begin with and how he manipulated everyone to accomplish it. The First Dragon God further pressed for answers but the Human God shattered the Divine Jewel causing the First Dragon God to be gravely wounded and the destruction of the Dragon World began as the Human God flies away.

"May the fortunes of war be with you" ..."everything shall be left to fate."

-Final Words Exchange of the First Dragon God and Laplace

Chaos and Maxwell asked for forgiveness and offered to end their life as well like Szilard did before them but the First Dragon God forgives them and gives them a mission to buy him time. After hearing Dora's words reported by Laplace, he asks Laplace to bring him to Dora's Teleport Research Laboratory. At the laboratory, the elderly researchers is greatly concerned for the First Dragon God as they lead him to the laboratory's innermost chamber which has an altar that functions as a gateway to another world and a stone monument with sophisticated Magic Circles. After studying the monument, the First Dragon God began to draw
Magic Circles
 onto his child who is placed on the altar by Laplace. Then the Dragon God placed one of the three Divine Jewels in his chest which is absorbed into his body, the another Divine Jewel on the chest of his child which is absorbed into his body and the final Divine Jewel he gives to Laplace with a mission.

Aware that his death is unavoidable the First Dragon God still sought vengeance on the imposter pretending to be the Human God whom he now calls "
Hitogami
" and after parting ways with Laplace, he goes to the Human World to battle Hitogami. The battle of the First Dragon God and Hitogami lasted for 8 days but neither the First Dragon God nor Hitogami can be found afterwards.

Legacy

"Hitogami is... my father's ruin. And, overthrowing Hitogami is the ancient Dragon Tribe's dearest wish. Our, the Dragon God's sole reason for existence is to defeat Hitgami."

Orsted

Hitogami begins to also use the name "Hitogami" which is the name the First Dragon God uses to refer to him when talking to Laplace and he uses that name to introduce himself to
Rudeus Greyrat
.

Laplace succeeds the First Dragon God who becomes the Second Generation Dragon God and makes preparation for war against Hitogami to avenge the death of the First Dragon God, Lunaria and the Five Dragon General's regret.

Laplace together with Saleyakt and
Rostelina
 begins to live in the largest mountain of the Human World and renames it to "Dragon Roar Mountain"; named after the largest mountain in the Dragon World, the First Dragon God's home and his former home.

After witnessing destruction of their respective worlds at the hands of the Dragon Tribe, the surviving
Races
 begin to hate and fear the Dragon Tribe especially the Dragon God that permeates throughout the Human World.

The surviving Dragon Tribe are hunted and killed but Laplace refuses to help them since the mission given to him by the First Dragon God is more important than the survival of the Dragon Tribe.

Laplace initially thought that Hitogami and First Dragon God had killed each other but Hitogami's indirect interference to his activities made him conclude that Hitogami is in the
Void World
 after searching everywhere in the Human World.

Rudeus eventually becomes a subordinate of Orsted who tells him his objective of defeating Hitogami on behalf of his father.

Equipment

『Godsword』

I named it "Dragon Godsword". It is a sword that can withstand even the mighty power of Dragon God-sama. Even though Dragon God-sama might not need it; I plan to offer it to his child when he is born.

-Mad Dragon King Chaos

The Godsword, short for Dragon Godsword is forged by Chaos for the First Dragon God.
 At the hands of the First Dragon God, the sword's strike is so powerful that only the other Gods are capable of withstanding its strikes. When the First Dragon God wielded it against the Dragon Generals, its strike can cut everything in half which seems to distort the world that everything in its path, be it dragon scales, Battle Aura, or even the Flying Fortress Chaos Breaker was sliced in two.
 Godsword is eventually inherited by Orsted which costs a huge amount of mana to summon so he uses it only when he needs to fight seriously.

Power and Abilities

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

References