First Job
 (
初仕事
,

Hatsu Shigoto
)
 is the twenty-third chapter of the
Mushoku Tensei

manga adaptation
.

Cover Characters

Eris Boreas Greyrat

Ruijerd Superdia

Hitogami

Rudeus Greyrat

Summary

As Man-God advised Rudeus to take the lost pet quest, the trio are led by Ruijurd as he tracks the missing cat. As Rudeus ponders why with a theory that it could lead to more profitable opportunities, an annoyed Eris asks Ruijurd if he does know where he's going as they've trekked through slums, and Ruijurd reassures them given his third eye's radar ability. Once they found the location of the missing cat, they find numerous other animals caged, as Rudeus believes there's a criminal operation happening. Ruijurd finds the cat, really a large black panther, verifying it by the collar before Eris detects someone approaching. As three persons enter, Roman, Jalil and Vizquel, Rudeus uses the earth magic spell [Quagmire] to unbalance so Eris and Ruijurd can knock them to a wall for Rudeus to use [Earth Cuffs] to restrain them.

After Rudeus celebrates a peaceful capture, he is kicked across the room by Roman, before Eris is also set aback by Ruijurd's spear backing into her head. Finding blood, Rudeus finds Ruijurd murdered Roman with effortless bloodlust, reasoning that he had to as Roman kicked a child, and didn't know his position as a prisoner. Rudeus is sent into a quiet panic but knows that killing is common in the world, but since Ghislaine attempted reason first against Almanfi. As Ruijurd killed a man just for kicking a child, Rudeus recalls Roxy's words on Superds, but also recalls Ruijurd's vulnerability from before, and wants to reason with him. Arguing that killing even for the most minor offenses will forever hinder his aim to repair the Superd reputation, and those that love him will ultimately become scared of him as he kills, Ruijurd promises to stop after seeing his logic, and Eris scolds Ruijurd for whacking her in the head causing a cut.

Calming down, Rudeus approaches the surviving two and learns their scheme to abduct then return pets for D-Rank rewards at the Adventurer's Guild. However, as they overheard Rudeus talking to Ruijurd, they know his secret as a Superd and fearfully promise to keep it secret, putting Rudeus in a predicament. Thinking of a monetary and reputation solution, Rudeus learns that the slain prisoner imposed himself into their pet abduction scheme so it was more convenient that he was gone. With that, Rudeus invites them to team up and orders they promote from D-Rank to C-Rank, earning anger and confusion from Ruijurd. With that, Jalil and Vizquel take their leave to fulfill Rudeus's command. However, Ruijurd grabs Rudeus demanding to know why he did so, Eris attacks Ruijurd while also countering his arguments. As he promised to escort them home and if he didn't like how Rudeus was planning things, Eris berated him that he could leave. Bound by his promise, Ruijurd relents and they deliver the lost pet back to the owner.

There, the young lizard girl hands over the quest card and thanks the "nice devils" for their kindness. Receiving payment for the completed quest, a despondent Ruijurd accompanied Rudeus and Eris back to their inn, while Eris notes how small the coin is. While Rudeus agrees, he can't help but feel that the coin is too heavy as he is filled with doubts of his choice, but chooses to press forward. As they leave, Nokopara surprises upon Jalil and Vizquel, charming his way into their conversation.

Appearances

Characters

Eris Boreas Greyrat

Ruijerd Superdia

Hitogami

Rudeus Greyrat

Roman

Jalil

Vizquel

Ghislaine Dedoldia
 (Flashback)

Almanfi
 (Flashback)

Roxy Migurdia
 (Flashback)

Meisel

Nokopara

Skills

Regions

Others

Differences from Light Novel

Trivia

To Be Added.

Navigation