Folklore
 (
昔話
,

Mukashibanashi
)
 is the twelfth chapter of the
Mushoku Tensei

manga adaptation
.

Cover Characters

Rudeus Greyrat

Summary

In the family library, Rudeus encounters Philip and asks for a translation reference to a Demon-God language book he purchased. When asked why he was learning the language, Rudeus wanted to learn a new language for a future benefit; when really a summoning book he wanted was already sold and he bought the book he did on a whim. But it was still half-true to him, remembering how he failed learning languages in his old life and now he wanted to dedicate some focus in this life. Appreciative of Philip's help, Rudeus is startled by a quick sinister expression by Philip in passing.

Searching for her husband, Lady Hilda finds him and Rudeus in the library. Rudeus bows courteously and gets a good angle on Hilda's bust, and wonders how Eris will develop in a few years. But as he returns to reality with Hilda's face in antagonistic disgust of him, she informs Philip that her gifts for Eris's 10th birthday only just arrived, and goes to see to their proper opening. While disturbed by the encounter, Philip explains to him that Hilda is rather upset given the Greyrat family tradition. After Philip failed in a bid to become head of the Greyrat family, Eris's older and younger brothers were "adopted" by his victorious brother to study in the Asura capital. As it is a Greyrat tradition to make compliance across all four houses, Hilda is upset since Rudeus can stay while her own sons cannot.

Philip asks Rudeus only tolerate Hilda's disdain for him, while Philip "enjoys" his presence. Taking his leave, Philip advices Rudeus speak to Ghislaine about learning the Beast-God language as she originates from the Doldia Tribe. Relieved the situational pressure had past, Rudeus spends some time looking over books for how to translate the Demon language. After so long and finding nothing, he remembers Roxy was of the Demon race and planned to write a letter for her help to learn.

Appearances

Characters

Rudeus Greyrat

Philip Boreas Greyrat

Hilda Boreas Greyrat

Roxy Migurdia
 (Flashback)

Skills

Regions

Others

Differences from Light Novel

Trivia

To Be Added.

Navigation

Template:JuvenileP