Friendship
 (
友情
,

Yūjō
)
 is the fourth chapter of the
Mushoku Tensei

manga adaptation
.

Cover Characters

Rudeus Greyrat

Summary

One week after Roxy left, Rudeus is no longer afraid of the outer world. When exploring the village, he happens upon a shout, and remembering how he was bullied in his past life, he finds a group of children's bullying another by throwing mud balls. Rudeus decides to help and confront the group, whereby thanks to Paul's training, he evades their attacks until the group gets bored and they leave. Afterwards, Rudeus approached the
boy
 to clean his hair with magic, discovering that it was green, similar Roxy's description of the Superd race, but Rudeus finds no jewel in their forehead upon checking. Worried that he may be bullied again, Rudeus decides to become friends with the shy Sylph. After bringin lunch to Sylph's father at the village watchtower, Sylph asks Rudeus if he can teach magic and he accepts planning to begin tomorrow. Parting ways for the day, Rudeus returns home to find Paul upset because a mother say that her child was attacked by Rudeus. As Paul refuses to hear Rudeus' side of the story, Rudeus plays to Paul's pride as he lords over him, only for Paul to hit him. After which, Rudeus uses logic in reiterating his behavior to honor his parents and finally states his side of the story. After Paul apologizes, Rudeus asks him if Sylph can come to the house sometime and Paul approves; Rudeus is happy Paul holds no racial predujice. After a year passed since Rudeus met Sylph and decided to teach him magic, Sylph is able to cast chant-less magic. When it starts to rain, they returned to Rudeus' house and go to the bathroom, where Rudeus started undressing his wet clothes. When Sylph didn't want to remove the last piece of his clothes, Rudeus takes him by surprise to pantsed his underwear, only to discover that Sylph is a girl.

Appearances

Characters

Rudeus Greyrat

Sylphiette

Paul Greyrat

Lilia

Roxy Migurdia
 (Flashback)

Skills

Ice Pillar

Regions

Buena Village

Fittoa Region

Others

Differences from Light Novel

Trivia

There is a reference of the mysterious masked guy of the series Gundam.

Navigation

Template:JuvenileP