This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

Gal Farion
 (
ガル
・
ファリオン
)
 is the Sword God, ranked 6th on the
Seven Great Powers
, and the teacher of
Eris
 and
Ghislaine
 in the
Sword God Style
.

Appearance

Gal Farion is described as an adult
man
 with blue hair with a face "like a ferocious wolf" and a prominent scar below his left eye that reaches below his left ear and another scar at the tip of his right eye.

Personality

Gal has a calm personality and is able to withstand insults. He is capable in teaching others and is a little arrogant, due to his great strength. Gal also hates asking help from anyone with the exception of training Eris for her battle against Orsted where Gal asked Reida's help who was intrigued of what Gal was planning to ask help even from her.

Orsted describes him as "A man of good character, with a hobby of collecting swords."

He seems to be an impatient man and makes quick decisions, complementing his swift sword-god style.

After being defeated by
Jino Britts
, he becomes much more irascible and prone to carelessness, easily giving into Eris' provocation and failing to notice Ruijerd's presence until it was too late.

Background

A young Gal Farion battling Enzo Moreira in the Manga
Gal Farion defeated by Orsted in the Manga
Gal Farion meeting Ghislaine in the
Anime
1/3

At a young age, is already a talented
Swordsman
 and when during his time at the
Holy Land of Swords
 where he defeats
Enzo Moreira
 who was a
Sword Saint
 in a sparring match.

Gal Farion describes himself as stubborn Sword Saint when he challenged Orsted to a battle. Naturally, he lost but survived with his 4 limbs intact and his stubborness was completely broken. Since then, He trained earnestly and made no compromises with the goal to cut down Orsted and eventually his ascension on becoming the Sword God of his generation. He claims to have become strong using rational methods that he also teaches to his students.

Like in previous generations, battle for who is the strongest swordsman of the generation occurs which also results to which
Swordstyle
 controls the Holy Land of Sword where Gal Farion battles and defeats
Water God
 Reida Reia. He was considered to be the fastest of his generation as not even Water God Reyda could withstand his attacks.

On his journey to the Great Forest, Gal met
Ghislaine Dedoldia
 and trained her in the Sword God Style wherein afterwards, she attained the rank of Sword King. He gifted her
Hiramune
 as proof of her mastery.

Plot

Volume 9 - Special Student Chapter






Gal meeting Eris in the Holy Land of Swords



Eris arrives at the Holy Land of Swords and defeats Jino and Nina. Gal took interest in Eris' potential in the sword and agrees to train her as his student to defeat Orsted, a dream that they both share. News of
Badigadi
 attacking
Ranoa Magic Academy
 also reaches Gal and is looking forward to fighting the demon lord but lost interest when Nina told him that Rudeus has already defeated him.

Volume 10 - Younger Sisters Chapter

When Eris fought
Auber Corvette
, Gal has been watching the fight for some time and and calls them out to stop before the two kills each other. Auber greets Gal confirming he received his letter and has never met such a swordsman like Eris who was like a beast then realizes that she is the Mad Dog that Gal mentioned. That evening, Ghislaine questions Gal's training for Eris. Gal knowing Ghislaine will not understand even if you carefully spell it out from A to Z for her explains that Orsted is 『an existence beyond rationality』while recalling his own battle against Orsted when he was a Sword Saint where he was left alive and without a limb missing by Orsted. Ghislaine still doesn't understand so Gal explains why he brought Auber for Eris'
North God Style
 training and his plan to also bring a
Water God Style
 teacher in the future so Eris can cope up with the techniques of each school that Orsted uses at God Rank.

Volume 13 - Everyday-life Chapter

Gal invites
Reida Reia
 and
Isolte Cruel
 into the sword santuary with the objective of teaching Eris how to fight and counter the Water God Style, with Reida remarking how weird it is for him to ask her anything as he hates to rely on others for help, He makes Isolte fight against Eris and Nina, and makes the three of them train together.

Volume 23 - Young Man Period - Decisive Battle Chapter

He was one of the people employed by
Geese
 to kill
Rudeus
 by disguising himself as a guard that went to the Supard village for inspection.

When the first stage of the final battle began, he fought
Eris Greyrat
 who was accompanied by
Ruijerd
. His defeat against
Jino Britts
 made him lose his confidence, and he made 2 mistakes that costed him his victory. He hesitated using the Sword God Style and used the unfamiliar Water God Style due to his lack of confidence, and his tunnel vision of
Eris
 made him not notice Ruijerd's presence.

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Legacy

Gal's Nodobue that he gives to Eris before passing is returned to the Holy Land of Swords and is used by Jino Britts

The 2 Sword Emperors does not recognize Jino to be the current Sword God and left the Holy Land of Swords to start their own school

Jino does not hold a grudge against Rudeus' group while the Sword Saints are upset that Jino refuses to defend the "honor" of the Sword God Style

Rudeus asks Jino to assist the
ORSTED Corporation
 in their preparation against
Laplace
's return that is supposed to be requested to Gal but Jino refuses as he only wields his sword for himself and his family

Orsted
 concludes that Jino's refusal that he will never be a disciple of
Hitogami

Despite Eris being responsible for Gal's death, Nina still considers Eris to be her friend and when she visits the Holy Land of Sword, Nina invites her to stay with them.

Power and Abilities

Sword God Style






Gal training Eris



As someone possessing God-rank, he was considered the strongest in the Sword God Style until Jino Britts defeated him. He possesses an extremely fast sword arm and was acknowledged by the Water God as the only man whose sword she could not stop.
 His speed is second only to Jino Britts. He knows various techniques of the Sword God Style and is adept at using them.

Water God Style

He possesses proficiency in the Water God Style at around the level of a Water Emperor, and was able to combine the Longsword of Light of the Sword God Style with one of the secret arts of the Water God Style. He thinks that he would have been able to reach great heights in the Water God Style if he had continued to pursue it.

Battle Aura






Gal's Battle Aura



Being the Sword God, when Gal unleashes his Battle Aura, it releases a pressure so strong that it knocked back Eris out of the dojo and the door also got destroyed as she crashed through it.

Equipment

Windpipe (Nodobue)

One of the Yulian
Sword God's seven swords
, It was a sword with a sparkling golden blade

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Achievements

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Quotes

Gal: "You have good eyes, huh. Just who is it that you want to cutdown?"

Eris: "The Dragon God! The Dragon God Orsted!"

Gal: "Hahhahaaa! I see, if you compare me to Orsted then I'm certainly a small fry! I see, I see, so it's him that you want to cut down! So there was someone besides me who wanted to cut him down!"

Reida
: "What, are you planning on having this beast assassinate me or something?"

Gal: "Goodness, no. What use would there be in killing an old lady who would croak on her own?"

Reida: "In that case, tell me what you're thinking. Why do you need me to teach her the Water God Style? Just who on earth is she planning to fight?"

Gal: "Eris over there wants to defeat the Dragon God Orsted."

To Eris: "
That person
, for some reason won't fight seriously. Even though he knows sword techniques and
magic
, he'll limit himself to just
Battle Aura
 and barehanded techniques whenever possible. Especially when he knows his opponent's skills. Battle Aura and barehanded techniques, if these aren't enough he'll use magic. He'll try to win as efficiently as possible, but in unfamiliar situations... Seeing a technique for the first time, he will try to study it. That is probably his weak point."

Trivia

He lost confidence in his Sword God Style because
Jino Britts
 defeated him despite the student's inexperience.

He is hinted to be emotionally blind, being incapable of understanding Jino Britts's and Eris's strength over him. Jino defeated him only to ask for his permission to marry his daughter and Eris drew her strength from the desire to protect her dearest. Gal Farion believes that a person is strong simply because they trained on top of having talent.

Until
Light Novel Volume 25
 only Gal's lower face with a smile is always shown in the Light Novel and
Manga
.

References