Information

Story

Relationships

Appearance

Gallus Cleaner
 is a North Saint and a smuggler of
Windport
.

Appearance

Gallus is a fierce-looking man with a scar over his right eye.

Personality

Gallus is a cruel man that has no qualms in harming children and setting up his allies to die for his own benefits. He is also a cunning strategist, capable of setting up an elaborate plan to get rid of fellow smugglers and kidnap
Doldia tribe
 members on a large scale.

Background

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Plot

Gallus is first seen after
Rudeus
 has just received a Foresight
Demon Eye
 and bumps into him. Rudeus then pushes him with wind magic which saves him from getting hit by a pot dropped above them. Gallus then helps in smuggling
Ruijerd
 from Wind Port to
Zant Port
 as thanks for saving him.

Later, once it is revealed that he had even deeper schemes to capture as many
beastfold
 children as possible, Rudeus reluctantly fights him to prevent him from doing so along with the Sacred Beast. He was strong enough where even with the
demon eye
, Rudeus was on the defensive the entire time, unable to counterattack, until
Geese
 fakes a tear gas bomb, giving Rudeus a window to knock him unconscious. After being detained he was given to the Zant Port officials.

Power and Abilities

North Saint





Gallus attacking Rudeus



He was skilled enough to fight a group of Dedoldia tribe members alone. In his battle against Rudeus, Gallus is able to close the distance between them and used throwing knives to hit Rudeus in the right leg to end the chase.

Equipment

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Achievements

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Quotes

Rudeus:
 “You sure do go about things in a very indirect manner,”

Gallus:
 “I told you, we aren’t a united organization. Can’t let my comrades get ahead of me.”

Trivia

He is one of the few characters that was added in the
Light novel
.

In the
Web novel
, the smuggler that help Rudeus was unnamed and without more participation in the plot.

References