Information

Story

Relationships

Appearance

Juvenile Period

Volume 4 - Voyage Chapter

Goes to the village and meets
Rudeus
 in Prison. He joins Rudeus in his escape but is caught afterwards. After Rudeus leaves, Geese joins him on his way to Milis.

Volume 5 - Reunion Chapter

Meets with
Paul
 and help him reconcile with Rudeus.

Youth Period

Volume 13- Labyrinth Chapter

Meets up with the the Fang of the Black Wolf, minus Ghyslaine and Elinalise, with Roxy in the party as well to go into the Labyrinth and find Zenith. He leads the way in the party and identifies traps. After the fight with the Manatite Hydra, he sells some of the Manatite.

Volume 21- Cliff Chapter

Meets up with Rudeus and his family in Milishion. Goes to Cliff's house to meet up with Zenith and take her around the town, but "mistakenly" hands Zenith over to a servant of Latreia House who Rudeus was currently feuding with. Was confronted by Rudeus about where Zenith was, he revealed that he left her in the care of a Latreia House servant and tells Rudeus that he didn't know about the feud. After Rudeus gets Zenith back and has Zenith examined by Miko and before they returned to Cliff's house, He leaves a letter with Aisha to Rudeus a letter revealing that he was Hitogami's Apostle all along and that He was saved by Hitogami many times when he was small and he decided to become his apostle until he repaid his debt, even though he was deceived into destroying his own tribe. The letter said that he saw Rudeus in his fight and declared his intention to fight Rudeus head on with his own forces that he will gather.

Young Man Period

Volume 22 - Organization Chapter

It was revealed by Kishirika's power that Geese was currently in a forest at the Eastern tip of the Northern lands of the Kingdom of Bihaeril meeting with someone, but her sight of him was cut off by Hitogami before she could see who he was meeting.

This article
lacks information
 and requires expansion. Please
expand this page
 to include missing information to help improve the article.

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.