This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

Information

Story

Relationships

Appearance

Family

Gustav Dedoldia

(Father)

Gyes Dedoldia

(Brother)

Minitona Dedoldia

(Niece)

Linia Dedoldia

(Niece)

Friends

Paul Greyrat

Paul is Ghislaine's former party mate in
Fangs of the Black Wolf
 who Ghislaine describes as a frivolous man who is full of bad and useless ideas thus resulting to the bad reputation of their party. Although Paul mentioned that he took advantage during Ghislaine's mating season, Ghislaine has no feelings for Paul but she still upholds his duty to Paul of taking care of Rudeus when he begins working as Eris' teacher.

Elinalise Dragonroad

A old friend.

Zenith Greyrat

A old friend.

Others

Gal Farion





Ghislaine's first meeting with Gal in the Anime



Gal is Ghislaine's teacher in the
Sword God Style
 who took interest in teaching Ghislaine who was a like hungry tiger who has a potential to be Sword Emperor at the time.
 Gal would tirelessly train Ghislaine and countlessly tell her to be "Logical" which Ghislaine describes to be similar to Rudeus' method of teaching. When Ghislaine became a Sword King, Gal gives him one of his swords Hiramune as proof of her mastery.

--To be added--

Rudeus Greyrat

Ghislaine bringing Rudeus to the Citadel of Roa
Ghislaine and accompanying Rudeus in their day off
Ghislaine teaching Rudeus the Beast God Language
Rudeus giving Ghislaine and Eris a Magic Wand
1/4

Upon meeting Rudeus for the first time on their trip to the
Citadel of Roa
, she questions whether or not he's actually Paul's son, noting him to be "way too polite for Paul's son" she asks why Rudeus wants to learn the
Beast God Language
 to meet pretty
Beast Race
 girls. During their time together, she learns how to read, write, how to do math and Fire Magic alongside Eris while Ghislaine also trains Rudeus in the
Sword God Style
 but she notices that Rudeus' approach in learning the Sword God Style is similar with how he learns
Magic
 and concludes that Rudeus is more suited with the
North God Style
 would gladly find him a teacher of the North God Style should he decide to pursue being a
Swordsman
. For this, she becomes rather grateful to him and also respects Rudeus as much as Gal Farion. Rudeus also has Ghislaine's respect, such respect that Ghislaine actually considers their advice valuable to the point of momentarily putting her goals aside to follow this advice.

Eris Boreas Greyrat

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Sauros Boreas Greyrat

Rudeus:"Asura Kingdom? Going to help rebuild the
Fittoa Region
?"
Ghislaine:"No, I will go hunt down those that killed Sauros-sama and kill them."

After the Fangs of the Black Wolf party disbanded, Ghislaine was cheated and is left with no money and was on the verge of starving to death when she was found by Sauros, Philip and Eris who hires her to be their bodyguard and since then she is loyal towards her benefactor.
 Despite burning with desire to avenge the death of Sauros, Ghislaine did not pursue vengeance until she entrusts Eris to Rudeus and plans to avenge Sauros afterwards.

Philip Boreas Greyrat

Eris:"Are you listening? I'm telling you to protect the most important person to me!"
Ghislaine:"...I won't! If you die, I won't be able to face Master Sauros and Master Philip!"

Due to the love of the
Boreas Family
 for the
Beast Race
, Philip asks Ghislaine to be his concubine but she refuses and continues to fulfill his duty as their bodyguard.
 After the Teleport Incident, Ghislaine finds the remains of Philip and Hilda and buried them after killing all the enemies responsible for this.

References