This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

Information

Story

Relationships

Appearance

No, I will go hunt down those that killed Sauros-sama and kill them.

Ghislaine, to
Rudeus

Ghislaine Dedoldia
 (
ギレーヌ・デドルディア
,

Girēnu Dedorudia
)
 is a talented swordswoman from the
beast race
, is the daughter of
Gustav
, the former Doldia Village chief, the mentor of
Eris
, and the student of
Rudeus Greyrat
 in
magic
 and other subjects. She is one of the few people who have become a Sword King.

Appearance

Ghislane has dark skin and wears a revealing leather outfit.
She has a slender build along with rippling muscles, and is full of scars all over her body. She wears an eye patch with sculpted like face gives off a delinquent boss vibe. She completely feels like a female amazon warrior from some fantasy story. Also she has beast-like ears and a tail like a tiger's. Her fur is very thick.

Personality

Ghislaine was described as a strong-willed individual and a meathead by
Paul
. She often has an expressionless face that can feel intimidating, but behind that face is a more emotional and rash person at times. She is like an older sister to Eris, looking after her and listening to her problems. She is deeply loyal to
Sauros
 and Eris, who saved her when she was on the brink of death.

When she was younger, she was extremely violent and dumb, totally incapable of reasoning. She would just try to solve all problems with violence, creating a lot of trouble for the tribe, to the point everyone felt relieved when she was taken by an adventure forcing her to leave the tribe.

Ghislaine is also diligent and hard-working. During the time of Rudeus a tutor in Eris' house, Ghislaine succesfully learned to read, write, count and do elementary magic.

Background

Because of her enormous power, Ghislaine's childhood was spent by her bullying
her brother
, causing troubles and at some point lead to her running away from her family.






First meeting of Ghislaine and Gal in the
Anime



At age 10, Ghislaine first meets
Gal Farion
 who was a wandering swordsman at the time and took her in due to her wild nature and her potential as a swordswoman.

After becoming a Sword king, she traveled with
Paul Greyrat
's
Fangs of the Black Wolf
 party as a warrior and she also the one who train a sword skill to
Paul Grayrat
.

After that, their adventurers party disbands, due to
Zenith
 and Paul's marriage.

She became victim to many scams because she did not knew how to read, write and due to her not knowing math she was fooled many times in money matters, this led her wanting to gain wisdom and knowledge.

When she was down on the ground due to hunger and weak health conditions, Eris' family took her in and gave her a job as a bodyguard and sword instructor with a monthly salary of 2
Asura
 gold coins.

Plot

She was first seen coming to pick up Rudeus and safely transported him to the
Citadel of Roa
. When Rudeus' plan backfired, Eris and Rudeus were kidnapped again and almost died, but Ghislaine stepped in just in time and saved both of them by finishing off the kidnappers. After Rudeus was hired as Eris' tutor, she was also tutored by him, she convinced Eris that math and literacy was important after telling her tale of how she nearly died from being scammed before. Later, on Eris' tenth birthday, Rudeus saw that she was hungry, but being a guard on duty, she was unable to go and dine with the other guests. In a kind act, Rudeus asked a maid to set up a private party with food in his room. Rudeus gave both of them wands signifying that have successfully passed their exams, she was honored to receive this gift, setting as an example to Eris again. She would then gift Eris a ring that was passed down her family as a reminder of her.






Ghislaine during the Teleport Incident



On Rudeus' 10th birthday, she was tasked to distract him while the rest of the family prepared a private party, asking to see his most powerful
spell
. Later that day they would go out to a field outside the city, then and there a storm began to brew before Rudeus had the chance to cast his spell, when suddenly a
mysterious masked man
 appeared and try to kill Rudy, thinking he was the source of this chaos, instantly parrying them, within a blink of an eye, everyone was transported later called the
Teleport Incident
. She ended up in the
Strife Zone
 and would then try to locate anyone she knew, but all she discovered was the corpses of
Philip
 and
Hilda Boreas Greyrat
. She then went back to try to reunite with everyone where she came across the family butler in a survivors camp in
Fittoa Region
, where she would then spend the next 3 years helping its refugees.

Once Rudy and Eris made their way back, she rejoiced that both of them were alive, and shocked to hear that they were teleported to the
Demon Continent
. She had been worried about their safety for all throughout those 3 years, when it came time for the meeting, they broke the news to Eris about her family's demise and that most of the Greyrat staff are still missing. She and the family butler also then argued over what course of action should be taken, with both options being unfavorable, Eris chose to leave on her own accord. Despite desiring revenge for the death of
Sauros
, Ghislaine puts this on hold for now to train and watch over Eris' during her time in the Holy Land of Swords.

After 6 months, Ghislaine questions the training method of Gal for Eris causing Gal to explain his plan for Eris of having knowledge of all the three sword styles to defeat
Orsted
 who can use all of its technique in God rank. Ghislaine realizes the reason why
Auber Corvette
 is there to train Eris in the
North God Style
 and confirms with Gal that he plans to invite a
Water God Style
 teacher in the future. Convinced with Gal's answer and despite being annoyed by his smell, Ghislaine welcomes Auber who also returns the gesture.

Power and Abilities

Ghislaine using Longsword of Light
Demon Eye seeing the huge mana flow of the red orb
1/2

Physical Abilities

Enhanced senses of the
Beast Race
 that helped her detect
Wii Taa
. This includes enhanced hearing, smell, sight and strength.

Sword King

Ghislaine became a
Sword King
 under the tutelage of her master Gal Farion and is able to use the Long Sword of the Light to defeat multiple enemies at high speed and she is able to match
Almanfi
 in terms of combat and speed. Unknown to Ghislaine her prowess in the Sword God Style made her to be the Goddess of the Forest Reinu (based from the last syllable of Ghislaine's name) and the protector of the Malkin Mercenary State after fighting side by side with
Viga
, who wears a pendant of with a portrait of Ghislaine.

Magic Abilities






Ghislaine practicing Fireball in the Anime



Elementary Ranked Fire Magic

Ghislaine learns Elementary Ranked Fire Magic under Rudeus' training

Demon Eye

Ghislaine has a Demon Eye hidden under the eye patch on her right eye. It allows her to see the flow of
Mana
.

Equipment

Hiramune






Ghislaine's Weapon: Hiramune



Hiramune lit. Flat Core is Ghislaine's weapon, given to her by Gal when she became Sword King and is one of the
Sword God's seven swords
 that she sheathes by her left hip and usually uses forward grip style in fighting. Hiramune is a katana with a dark colored back side and patterns by its reddish edge side. The golden cross guard also serves as a blade collar but it is longer on backside and as it crosses to the edge side. The dark hilt is slightly curved and has a golden pommel.

Like Paul, Ghislaine is always seen with Hiramune wherever she goes and when on guard duty she is always ready to draw her Hiramune at a moment's notice.

Achievements

These are the achievements that Ghislaine gained through her adventure, action, and training:

S-Ranked Adventurer

Sword King Class Swordswoman

Princess Ariel's Bodyguard

Quotes

Rudeus:

"Ghislaine, what do you plan to do next? Will you stay around?"
Ghislaine:

"No, once I leave Eris-sama with you, my work here is done. I plan to head back to the Asura Kingdom."
Rudeus:

"Asura Kingdom? Going to help rebuild the Fedoa Region?"
Ghislaine:

"No, I will go hunt down those that killed Sauros-sama and kill them."

Trivia

Ghislaine has the ability pick the correct answer out of two choices consistently, despite being weak in analysis.

Nobody believes that Ghislaine can read, count, and do (elementary) magic.

She is able to speak both human and beast god tongue.

Judging from
Gal Farion
's sword collection, Ghislaine is the only Sword King before Eris,
Nina
 and
Jino
 ascended to the position.

Thanks to her demon eye, she could see through teleportation traps when clearing labyrinths during her adventurer days with Paul's party.

The reason why Gustav sent
Pursena
 and
Linia
 to the
Ranoa Magic Academy
 is that she and her brother Gyes are unsuited to become village chief.

According to Paul in a letter he wrote to Rudeus on his trip to meet Eris for the first time, she never lost to Paul in anything except for when in bed.

Elinalise
 states that she wagged her tail when Paul was around (in the sense that Ghislaine flirted a lot with Paul); Ghislaine states that this was because she was in mating season.

Rudeus thought Paul had plans to take Ghislaine as a third wife.

Gallery

View Gallery

Click here to view the Gallery

References

Navigation

Fangs of the Black Wolf

Leader

Paul Greyrat

Members

Zenith Greyrat
 •
Ghislaine Dedoldia
 •
Geese
 •
Elinalise Dragonroad
 •
Tallhand