Ginger York is the loyal subordinate of
Zanoba
, formerly serving as his imperial guard.

Appearance

Ginger is a young woman wearing a military uniform with short dark brown hair that is tied behind her head with a loose bang at the right of her face.

Personality

Ginger has a serious personality and always has her master's best interest in mind. She is deeply loyal to Zanoba even though he sold her to get the
Roxy
 doll that Pax bought, but is not afraid to lecture him when she deem necessary.

Background

Ginger was asked to look after Zanoba by his mother, Minerva personally and swore in that moment to devote herself in his service. She served Zanoba until he traded her for a figurine of Roxy. She wanted to leave her position, but Pax held her family hostage and prevented her from acting on it.

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Plot

When Pax heard the news of
Rudeus
 arriving the Shirone Kingdom, Ginger was ordered to lure Rudeus into a trap. She carried out the order, but arranged to send the
Ruijerd
 figurine carried by Rudeus to Zanoba as an act of defiance. After Zanoba captured Pax while Ruijerd and
Eris
 saved her family, she turned against Pax.

When Pax was exiled and Zanoba was send to Ranoa, she left her position as a knight to follow Zanoba to continue fulfilling Minerva's request. She joins
Ruijerd Superdia
 where they work as bodyguards of
Norn Greyrat
 and
Aisha Greyrat
 on their travel to Rudeus'
home
 in
Sharia
 while
Paul Greyrat
 goes to the
Begaritt Continent
 to rescue
Zenith Greyrat
.

In Sharia, Ginger is a constant presence in Zanoba's room where she is usually positioned by the wall attending to the guests and also assists in teaching
Julie
 on speaking the Human God Language. Ginger is also renting an apartment close to the
Ranoa Magic Academy
 instead of the room for bodyguards next to Zanoba's room to avoid presumptuous rumors.

Power and Abilities

She know healing magic and can use the Water God style to parry magic.

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Equipment

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Achievements

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Quotes

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Trivia

She is ranked #12 in skills as an imperial guard in the Shirone Kingdom.
Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

References