Give And Take
 (
ギブ＆テイク
,

Gibu ando Teiku
)
 is the nineteenth chapter of the
Mushoku Tensei

manga adaptation
.

Cover Characters

Rudeus Greyrat

Eris Boreas Greyrat

Summary

After Rudeus convinced Ruijurd to guide them to the nearest inhabited area, Rudeus and Eris fought coyote packs on the way as combat training. But when Rudeus distracted Eris by his grazing her on an attack spell, they were met by a Stone Treant that was swiftly dispatched by Ruijurd and made into firewood. Arriving at the village, Rudeus's anxiety of what to do after Ruijurd leaves fades as a random child greets them before the front gate guard, Rowin, encounters them. Distrustful of outsiders, Rowin tells them to leave before the elder arrives to invite the group in, where Rudeus can't help but feel an uncertain familiarity with the people in the village.

With the sea between the Central and Demon continents homw to the rule of Sea Folk, Rudeus and Eris must head far south to Wenport before traveling through Millis Continent to then trek the Central Continent to return to Asura Kingdom. Given the perils on the road, Rudeus worries of the timelapse such a trek would take, but is surprised hearing Ruijurd state his promise to see them home. While not wanting events to play as Man-God wants, and with the elder noting he's a wanted man in every city, Rudeus hears Ruijurd's dedication is because of his ultimate goal: to clear the Superd's tainted name. Asking how given history, Ruijurd's angry flares trying to explain himself but subsides seeing a toddler fear him.

Ruijurd tells his story, how Laplace gave the demons on the continent rights when humans did not, as well as how the Superd were his fighting force due to their radar like third eye gems, garnering respect as warriors. But when Laplace provided "new spears" for them mid-war, many Superds were offended as their own spears are their souls; as a Superd's spear is their once tail, naturally detatched in adulthood and formed into a spear. When Ruijurd was action commander, he ordered his fellow Superds to comply, resulting in their people gaining incredible strength and madness as a result, attacking friend and foe alike before Ruijurd was freed by his son sacrificing himself. Ruijurd destroyed all the dark spears while the surviving Superd scattered across the world, as Ruijurd swore he would kill Laplace for his treachery, intervening in the battle between the three heroes and Laplace using his son's spear.

While Laplace was the perpetrator, Ruijurd still holds some culpability upon himself for his role, and aims to clear the Superd's reputation no matter what. Hearing how terrible his story was, Rudeus offers to help him in his quest. Ruijurd will protect him and Eris in the wild, while Rudeus and Eris will protect him in cities. His heart moved by Ruijurd's goal, Rudeus can't help but be quietly fearful he is playing into Man-God's plans. The elder has Rowin summon his wife, Rokari, to bring tea for their visitors. Curious to see him standing there, Ruijurd explains how the Migurd are telepaths, and Rudeus is shocked to see Rokari resembles Roxy. Rowin then gets in close to Rudeus asking how he knows Roxy and has her pendant, Rudeus berates him for not giving Roxy proper honorifics, before Rowin explains he and Rokari are Roxy's parents. Realizing he is in Roxy's hometown, Rudeus tries to play that Rowin is his "father-in-law" much to Rowin's annoyance.

Appearances

Characters

Rudeus Greyrat

Eris Boreas Greyrat

Ruijerd Superdia

Rosh

Rowin Migurdia

Rokkus Migurdia

Hitogami
 (Flashback)

Laplace
 (Flashback)

Perugius Dola
 (Flashback)

Rokari Migurdia

Skills

Regions

Others

Differences from Light Novel

Trivia

To Be Added.

Navigation