This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

Godbard
 (
ゴッドバルド
,

Goddobarudo
)
 also known as
Godbard of the Splendid Heavenly Peak
 (
誇らしき天頂のゴッドバルド
,

Hokorashiki Tenchō no Goddobarudo
)
 is a dwarf and the current Ore God of the Dwarf Village where
Talhand
 is also born.

Appearance

According to elders of the Dwarf Village, Godbard is the spitting image of the late Ore God who was a God Class Earth Mage and with the stone he created, produced a legendary sword.

Background

"Someone who can't make their own sword, couldn't possibly understand my design. Those who don't understand can't assist me."

-Godbard to
Talhand

Godbard is the 38th of 51 siblings but not related by blood since the Dwarf Village he was born has a tradition that all children of the same generation are all grouped together similar to a school. Another tradition of the dwarves is when they reach the age of 7, they are given a name based on things they like or admire or things they are good at
 so he become known as 『Godbard of the Splendid Heavenly Peak』. When the dwarf children are of age, they are taught blacksmithing and crafts as well as simple Earth Magic and Godbard far outshine his siblings and at the recommendation of the elders who lived through the
Laplace Wars
, Godbard is selected as a candidate for the next Ore God and is given preferential treatment.

Even the other children acknowledges Godbard as their future leader especially his close friend Talhand who also considers Godbard to be his first love. Aware that the can never be a better blacksmith than Godbard, Talhand decides to become his right-hand man instead and tells Godbard of his intention of becoming a Water and Wind Magician to assist him in smelting steel despite the tradition of dwarves refused to acknowledge this fact. When Godbard became the Ore God, which effectively makes him the leader of the Dwarf Village, he selects his wife, friends, even his right hand man to which Talhand volunteers himself but Godbard choose someone else that angered Talhand. Due to Talhand's blacksmithing skills not up to par because he is practicing only Water and Wind Magic which Godbard berates him for it. When the ceremony for Godbard to be the Ore God begins, Talhand left the village.

Abilities

Godbard is considered to be talented in Blacksmithing, crafts and Earth Magic among his generation. Even in his childhood he could forge steel as hard as the adults, craft ornaments so splendid to make those see it doubt their eyes and can fix weak points of a building showed to him.

--To be Added--

Personality

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Plot

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Achievements

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Quotes

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Trivia

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

References