This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

Gods
 are the most powerful beings on the
Six-Faced World
, and the original guardians of each world. Unlike the other beings that followed with the title of "God" such as the
Seven Great Powers,
 these are actual beings of divine origins and are worshipped by the denizens of their respective worlds as deities.

History

Creation

After the Creator God created the Six-Faced World, he decided to use what was left of his power to split his body into 6 pieces and form divine beings who will ensure that all six worlds would prosper and to keep the worlds in balance. These six beings would come to be known as Gods to the people of their respective world.

Age Of The Gods

At the suggestion of the Human God, all the Gods formed a council to share information and knowledge with each other to benefit their worlds. The Gods would regularly meet, trade information, and discuss the state of the Six-Face World.

The God Wars

The God Wars (not the official name) began when the first Dragon God declared war on 4 of the 6 worlds in order to search for the murderers of his wife, Lunaria. Evidence pointed to a conspiracy of these four worlds that resulted in Lunaria's murder, and so the Dragon God and his five Dragon Generals began their massacre on the Beast world, followed by the Ocean World, the Heaven World, and finally the Demon world. Each time, the Dragon God faced off and killed one of the Gods while his Dragon Generals committed genocide on the world populations. The Human God then opened a rift to allow the survivors of those worlds to escape into the human world.

Dragon World Fall

After the war was won, the Dragon God ordered his Dragon Generals to invade the Human World, even though the Human God was their ally. The Dragon Generals then turned on him in order to stop his rampage but were eventually defeated. In the battle's final moments, the Human God appeared and struck down the Dragon God, revealing himself as the mastermind of the entire war. The Dragon God also revealed that he knew the god who defeated him was not the Human God, but an unknown entity wearing the Human God's form who then dubbed himself Hitogami. After which, Hitogami destroyed the Dragon world however the dying Dragon God challenged the trickster to a final fight that ended with the Dragon God's death and Hitogami's imprisonment in the Void World. With all the Gods dead and Hitogami imprisoned, the Age of the Gods faded into legends.

Abilities and Powers

"No. Like Dragon God, I'm not omniscient either. I don't know everything, but I do know knowledge from the Gods of each world. For example, your true potential..."

Human God to
Laplace

The power of the Gods was immense, they could destroy an entire world without too much effort and were impossible to kill by anyone or anything other than another God. Wounds inflicted by Gods would take around a century to heal even if they are inflicted on another God. The Dragon God's blood had healing properties, and the Demon God could change his size to more then 200 meters (it's unknown if this was exclusive to him or if all Gods could do this).

List of Gods

Creator God

The Creator God was an impossibly ancient being that created many worlds during its lifetime. At some point, it realized that it's death was near and decided to make one last effort to make one last world. But the world it built was unbalanced, so it made 5 more and stuck them all together making the Six-Faced World. Before his death he made the six Gods to govern each world. With his final work completed, the Creator God died.

Sea God

A man with a large amount of tentacles growing from his mouth and squid-like slimy skin.

Beast God

The Beast God Pudoria Dordia is man with two heads, a dog and a cat, riding on a white wolf.

Heaven God

A beautiful God with twin eyes on his forehead and six wings on his back.

Demon God

A man with eight arms and six horns, spanning a height of over three meters. He was considered the second most powerful God.

Human God

A featureless man with a mosaic-covered face. While he was the weakest of the Gods, he was also the most respected by all the other Gods and was considered their leader. He was the one who suggested that all the Gods come together and share their knowledge and technology with each other for the benefit of all worlds. It is due to these meetings that the Human God shared various wisdoms from his world such as the use of "Language" and "Letters" to the other Gods which greatly advanced their civilizations.

Dragon God

The First Dragon God had silver hair, skin covered in silver scale, golden eyes, sharp claws and fangs. He was the most powerful of all the six Gods. He was tricked by Hitogami into killing the other Gods and subsequently destroying 4 of the 6 worlds, only to be killed by Hitogami himself later causing the destruction of his own world.

Hitogami

Hitogami shares the Human God's features, however he is not the original Human God but an imposter wearing his shape. He is actually an unknown entity born in the center of the world that at some point usurped the Human God, and while not a proper God made by the Creator God he still wields divine powers equal to that of a God.

Demigods

Demigods are not actual Gods but rather the offspring of one of the Gods and a mortal. While not as powerful as their divine parents, they still carry immense power within them.

Kishirika Kishirisu

Kishirika Kishirisu is the daughter of the Demon God and the once Demon Empress Kirisis Calisis.

Lunaria

Lunaria is the daughter of the Human God, Wife of the Dragon God,
Laplace
's adopted mother and Orsted's biological mother. She was loved by all and had an almost otherworldly ability to calm people and make them feel safe and at peace. However, after giving birth to Orsted, she was murdered by Hitogami when she used her body as a shield to protect her newborn son, who was the true target of the assassination. Her death was the catalyst that caused the Dragon God, out of sadness and rage, to destroy other worlds believing that the other gods or their servants were responsible for her murder.

Orsted

Orsted's birth was the idea that came from the Human God, who proposed that the Dragon God marry his daughter Lunaria in order to produce a Demigod that is three-quarters God rather than only half, and the result was Orsted.

References