This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!





The Greyrat House at Sharia in the Anime



The
Greyrat House
 is the residence and dwelling of
Rudeus Greyrat
 and his family initially located at
Buena Village
,
Asura Kingdom
, and later at
Sharia
, Ranoa Kingdom.

Background

Buena Village


https://mushokutensei.fandom.com/wiki/File:MT-AN-S1-E01-WEBM-01.webm



Rudeus casting a spell that blows a hole at the Greyrat House, Buena Village in the Anime



After
Paul Greyrat
 and
Zenith Greyrat
 retires from being
Adventurers
, Paul asks
Philip Boreas Greyrat
 to give him a job so the Boreas Family arranges that he become a lower class
Knight
 who is assigned to defend Buena Village while Zenith becomes the healer of the village. They both lived in a two story wooden house where they hired
Lilia Greyrat
 to be their maid and eventually where
Rudeus Greyrat
,
Norn Greyrat
 and
Aisha Greyrat
 were born
.





Rudeus seeing the ruins of their house while recalling memories of his time there



In
K417
, the
Teleport Incident
 occurs causing the citizens of Buena Village to be teleported randomly through out the
Human World
. Three years later, Rudeus manages to return to Buena Village but all that is left are the ruins of their house and the village is abandoned. Rudeus then decides to head to the northern regions of the
Central Continent
 to search for his missing families.

Sharia






Rudeus, Cliff and Zanoba preparing to exorcise the "Haunted" House



Rudeus eventually receives news that
Zenith
 has been located and ceases his search and at the suggestion of
Elinalise Dragonroad
, he goes to
Ranoa Magic Academy
 to continue his studies where he eventually reunites with
Sylphiette
.
 With plans of marrying her, Rudeus decides to look for a house to settle down and finds a listing for one that is rumored to be haunted. Due to his reputation as "Rudeus the
Quagmire
" and also listing his guarantors to be
Ariel Anemoi Asura
 and
Badigadi
, he managed to lower the price of the house. Still interested in buying the house despite being haunted, Rudeus is assisted by
Zanoba Shirone
 and
Cliff Grimoire
 to exorcise the house which turns out that the ghost is an automated doll.

Layout






Sharia Greyrat House Layout



With the house "exorcised", Rudeus begins renovations and hires
Balda
 of the Great Cave for the repairs and to avoid further expenses, Rudeus also provided the materials for the repairs with his Earth Magic. From Balda's inspection he describes the floor to be oddly well made but the walls and ceiling are shoddy as if the basement is the most important part of the house and everything else is just extra.

Exterior

Exteriors before Renovations
Exteriors after Renovations
1/2

"I picked a color close to your original hair for the roof. You might not have liked your hair, but I really did."

-Rudeus to Sylphiette

The Greyrat House in Sharia is located at the Student District of the city, built over a century ago that has an untended garden; walls, ceiling had water damage; roof leaking during rains and walls shrouded in moss and shriveled vines making it look more like an abandoned ruin than a house. After the renovation, the walls and stones are polished and cleaned with the roof painted bright green.

Door

Zanoba knocking down the Front Door before renovation
Greyrat House new front door in the Anime
1/2

The Front Doors were knocked down by Zanoba when they exorcised the house so Rudeus replaced it with double doors made of expensive wood shaved down to fit the frame and the outside slab has a knocker in the form of a lion head. A
Magic Circle
 is also drawn at the edge of the door as a security measure that causes a loud noise if the door is forced open which echoes throughout the house.

Main Hall

Main Hall in the Anime
Main Hall viewed behind the front door
1/2

"I decided to buy only the bare essentials of furniture for now. Perhaps it was just the Japanese part of me talking, but I felt like I should save the rest for myself and Sylphie to decide on together."

-Rudeus

Beyond the front door is the main hall that has a stairs leading to the second floor and behind it is another stairs to the basement while the doors on each side leads to the living rooms. Despite the hall being in ruins, it has excellent natural lightings.
 After the renovation, the ceilings has been restored with bright wooden panels that eliminates the concern of water leaking when it rains.

Bathroom






Rudeus and Sylphy inspecting the Bathroom tub



Before the renovation, the bathroom is a second kitchen later converted to a bathroom since it was initially used for washing so most of the bathroom's plumbing are kept in tact since most of its interior structure does not appear to be used much but the floorings are replaced from stones to tiles and has a large tub is placed at the end of the room.  The bathroom in the house was made at the request of Rudeus that is normally seen in the house of nobilities
which also caused rumors about him that despite his carelessness for his clothing, he loved cleanliness and bathed almost everyday.

Living Room

Rudeus and Sylphiette at the Living Room
Rudeus and Sylphiette talking about the Fireplace
Rudeus and Ruijerd at the Greyrat House living room
1/3

The Greyrat House has 2 living rooms which is a large, warm family-oriented room. The room has a 3 seater sofa, 2 single seater sofa around the fireplace and a nearby jug and water that gives the feeling of a relaxing home.

Kitchen






Rudeus and Sylphy in the Kitchen



Before the renovation, the Greyrat House has 2 kitchens but only the first 1 has a kiln giving the impression that it was 2 houses merged into one. After the renovation, the kiln is refurbished and the kitchen also hosted an assortment of the newest cooking equipment, a counter large enough to butcher an entire boar and a cooking stove with a gigantic pot. There are also casks, jars and other sorts of containers for storage purposes.

Basement






Rudeus praying at the shrine at the basement



The Basement is initially where the automated doll stays when inactive at a hidden room. After Rudeus moves into the house, he turns the basement to be his private study while the hidden room becomes the shrine for her Goddesses and their relics.
Aisha
 eventually discovers the shrine and uses it to as a means to get what she wants such as getting Rudeus to agree in keeping
Beat
 as their pet.

Hitogami
 attempted to manipulate Rudeus in to releasing the mouse infected with
Magic Stone Disease
 but he was stopped by an
old man
 before he could enter the basement.

Bedrooms






Aisha's bedroom in the Manga



The second floor has 7 bedrooms that Aisha, Norn, Zenith, Lilith, Roxy and Eris occupies when they move to Sharia.

Master Bedroom

Sylphy seeing the Master Bedroom for the first time
Master Bedroom at night
1/2

The Master Bedroom, also known as the "Love Nest" the room of Rudeus which has a large bed that is big enough for 3 people, chair and desk.

--To be added

Aisha's Room

Study

References