This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

Hilda Boreas Greyrat
 (
ヒルダ
・
ボレアス
・
グレイラット
)
 is the mother of
Eris Boreas Greyrat
 and the wife of
Philip Boreas Greyrat
. She is a member of the Boreas household.

Appearance

Hilda Boreas Greyrat is a tall, elegant woman with a regal and imposing presence. She has long, dark red hair that falls straight down her back, like her daughter, often emphasizing her stern and serious demeanor. Her sharp, almond-shaped eyes, paired with her high cheekbones and furrowed brows, give her an intense, unyielding look.

She wears a formal, aristocratic gown in deep red, with off-the-shoulder sleeves and a fitted bodice that highlights her slender yet very curvy figure, with a low-hanging collar, which expose a generous part of her cleavage. The dress has black accents running down its length, adding to her noble and dignified appearance. Around her neck, she dons a large green gemstone pendant that adds a touch of refinement and wealth to her look, with short white earrings.

Personality

At first, Hilda is very cold towards
Rudeus Greyrat
, due to the fact her two sons were taken away from her and would always stare at him angrily. But as years pass, she eventually warms up to him, acting very motherly and proud of him and even calling him her son and offering him her daughter to marry.

Background

Hilda is a daughter of an ordinary noble who has ties with Philip and they eventually married. When Philip lost to his brother
James Boreas Greyrat
 on the battle becoming head of the Boreas family, and as per Boreas tradition, their first born son is taken away by James which greatly affects Hilda until Eris was born. But Hilda became unstable again after their second son who is 2 years younger than Eris is also taken away.

Plot

Hilda is introduced to Rudeus where she scoffs at his greeting and they barely interact with each and when they do, she would angrily stare at him making Rudeus wonder if he has done something to offend her.






Hilda hugging Rudeus in the Anime



During the party for Rudeus' 10th birthday, Hilda's attitude towards Rudeus has greatly changed and seeing the budding relationship between Rudeus and Eris, she proposes that Rudeus marry Eris, much to Eris' surprise. At the middle of the party, Hilda drank quite a lot and become drunk but her face is full of smiles and laughing boisterously. Before retired for the night, she gave Rudeus and a goodnight kiss and walked back to her room. Later at the night, Rudeus believes that Hilda sent Eris to his room in a nightgown.

In the
Teleport Incident
, she and her husband were teleported into a dangerous location where they were found dead once
Ghislaine Dedoldia
 reached and found them.

--To be added--

Legacy

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Trivia

The name
Hilda
 means "fortress" (ヒルダ) (hiruda).

Hilda's surname
Boreas
 could mean the Greek god of north wind.

Gallery

Hilda accepts Rudeus in the manga.

References