Information

Chronology

Hitogami
 (
ヒトガミ
,

Hitogami
)
 is the self-proclaimed
Human God
 (
人神

,

Hito-shin

, lit. "Man-God")
 and the sworn enemy of Dragon God
Orsted
.

Spoilers ahead!

Initially a supporting character, aiding
Rudeus
 by offering helpful advice, he later becomes the overarching antagonist of the series following the revelation that he actually sought to prevent the birth of
Rudeus' children
, who are prophesied to kill him one day.
He is the physically oldest being in Mushoku Tensei Verse.

Appearance

He has a blank white face coupled with a grin that eludes memory, which gives off the feeling that his face is covered in a mosaic.

Personality

Hitogami appears friendly and casual when communicating with his apostles, but he is actually a manipulative trickster who pulls strings behind the scenes. He seems to derive a sick sense of enjoyment from tricking people into destroying what they value the most, and laughing at their despaired faces afterwards. He is also a sore loser that throws tantrums when things aren't going his way.

Background

Hitogami's exact origins is unknown. It is known that after the
Creator God
's death, unbeknownst to anyone, he was born within the
Void World
. At some point in the distant past, the being who would come to be known as Hitogami killed or otherwise usurped the
original Human God
 and took his form. He then began manipulating the
First Dragon God
 and his five Dragon Generals into destroying the other four worlds and then proceeded to help the survivors of those ruined worlds to flee into the
Human World
. When the five Dragon Generals turned on the Dragon God and weakened him, Hitogami took that opportunity to strike a fatal blow to the Dragon God and then destroy the Dragon World. However before Hitogami's victory was complete, the dying Dragon God used the last of his power to trap Hitogami within the Void World.

He is the sworn enemy of
Orsted
 as he was the one that caused the fall of the First Dragon God, Orsted's father. Despite not being able to physically manifest in the Human World, he was still pulling the strings from behind the scene by appearing in people's dreams, manipulating them as his "apostles". During the
Second Great Human-Demon War
, he convinced
Badigadi
 to steal the Golden Armor from Demon Dragon God
Laplace
 and fight him head on, resulting in the huge explosion that formed the
Ringus Sea
 and Laplace being split into two beings. He is currently still sealed in the
Void between the worlds
, presenting himself as the god associated with humans.

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Power and Abilities

Not much is currently known about Hitogami's Powers.

He is automatically trusted by all inhabitants of the
Six-Faced World
, except members of the
Dragon Tribe
 as well as otherworlders and their descendants.

He has the ability to talk to people in their dreams.

When he speaks with people in their dreams, he's able to read their minds.

His powers won't work on non-human opponents, like spirits.

Being the physically oldest in the world coupled with the power of all seeing eyes, he has very high knowledge of magic and history surpassing that of even Orsted.

According to the First Dragon God, he has Divine powers being able to destroy the Dragon World with a single strike. He is without a doubt one of the strongest characters in the series with his powers possibly being second only to Orsted.

『Divine Powers』

While Hitogami Full Powers are still unknown, he is powerful enough to destroy the Dragon World with a single attack. The first Dragon God implied that he is so powerful that only another god can kill him.

『Future Sight』

He has the ability to see the future, probably the strongest one there is as he can see nearly 100 years into the future (when looking at his own future only), but according to
Orsted
 the more apostles he controls the more his future sight becomes vague, and because of this ability he can also adjust the future to a certain extent. He can likely control only three apostles at the same time because he is always using much of his own future sight to look at his own future constantly and trying to control it in a way that would benefit him.

『All-Seeing Eyes』

Like Kishirika's All-Seeing Eyes, he can see anywhere in the world except places with high mana concentration.

Achievements

Successfully tricked the previous dragon god into destroying the other races' worlds, forcing them to migrate to the human world and effectively creating the setting of Mushoku Tensei.

Drove
Pax Shirone
 into suicide via his apostles and prevented the formation of the Republic of Shirone, thus foiling Orsted's plan to pinpoint and kill Laplace when he is newly born
.

Alternate Timeline

Indirectly killing
Roxy
 during pregnancy and effectively preventing the birth of
Lara
, whom is prophesied to play a key role in his death.

Taking over
Asura Kingdom
 through his apostles.

Quotes

To Rudeus:
 “Ah, you see, last time my advice didn’t turn out so well for you, did it? So it was a bit hard for me to show myself again.”

Trivia

In the Seven seas version of the light novel, Hitogami is called Man-God, meanwhile in the seven seas version of the manga he is called Hitogami.

He is the only character of the anime adaptation that is animated with CGI.

It was speculated by Laplace that the source of Hitogami Divine Powers is the Corpse of the Creator God.

By his own admission, the world will end if he dies.

References