This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!





Holy Land of Swords in the Manga



The
Holy Land of Swords
 also known as the
Sword Sanctum
 or
Sword Sanctuary
 is the town where the headquarters of the
Sword God Style
 is located.

Geography

The Holy Land of Swords is a harsh land covered in snow all year round located at the northwest region of the
Central Continent
. Travelling from the Holy Land of Swords to
Sharia
 takes around 1 to 2 months on a horse.

Background





The first Sword God teaching in the Holy Land of Swords



The first Sword God in his final years built a school here to teach his disciples the sword, and it became the destination for all aspiring swordsmen to be trained by the Sword God himself
. In K323, a
Water God
 of a certain generation had dueled the Sword God and took the land from him, but that same Water God was defeated by another Sword God and the Holy Land was returned to the Sword God Style. Since then, the Holy Land of Swords became the place where the strongest swordsman among the 3 Great Sword Styles of the generation stays to teach the sword.

The Water God
Reida Reia
, who has maintained her strength in her old age also crossed swords with the Sword God
Gal Farion
, but Gal's sword is unblockable for her. Afterwards they were still more or less on good terms that Reia accepts Gal's invitation to teach one of his students who piqued Reia's interest years after.

Plot






Eris in the Holy Land of Swords in the Anime



On Ghislaine's monologue, she considers bringing Rudeus and Eris to the Holy Land of Swords should they decide to improve their swordsmanship.

At Eris' request, Ghislaine brings her to the Holy Land of Swords where Gal Farion promotes her to
Sword Saint
 after defeating Jino and Nina.

Notable Areas

Like any other towns, the Holy Land of Swords has an inn, a weapon shop, and even an
Adventure Guild
. There are also adventurers and merchants seen throughout the streets. The most outlying feature of the town is that all townsfolk are swordsmen of the Sword God Style, that even the town girls having slim arms are more skilled than most adventurers.

Sword God Style Dojo






Sword God Style Dojo in the Manga



The Sword God Style's headquarters is a large dojo encircled by a wall sitting at the top of the hill, making it the centerpiece of the Holy Land of Swords seen even from afar. Despite the numerous dojos located all over the Holy Land of Swords, The Sword God Style Dojo is the most prominent among them as this is the headquarters of the Sword God Style and Gal Farion's residence.

Space of the Present






Space of the Present in the Manga



The Space of the Present is the Main Hall Room of the dojo where the Sword God is usually found along with the 2 Sword Emperors. The students of the Sword God Style would also practice under their watch
.

In the Holy Land of Swords, anyone below Sword Saint are not allowed to enter the Sword God Style Main Dojo. While anyone below Advanced rank including children are placed in dojos near their homes for training. This method of placing has no exceptions even for
Nina Farion
 and
Jino Britts
 who are relatives of the Sword God.
 Otherwise it is the duty of the Sword Saints to kick out anyone who intrudes in the dojo.

Trivia

Most of the people in the Holy Land of Swords are so illiterate that they dismissed
Ghislaine Dedoldia
's writing are just scribbles

References