This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!





A Human Race family from the Human World in the Anime



Humans
 (人族,
Jinzoku
) are the main race that lives in the Human World, ruled by the Human God.

Appearance

The Humans of the Human World have similar appearances to the humans on earth with the exception that Humans on the Human World having black hair is quite uncommon.

Background

Six-Faced World
 Era

Humans are the main race that dwells in the
Human World
 during the
Six-Faced World
 Era 10, 000 to 20, 000 years ago and is ruled by the
Human God
. Under the Human God's guidance, the humans were able to thrive faster and advance their civilization greatly ahead of the other five worlds from words and letters to communal living and forming a social order.
The Human God wishes to share this to all the other gods to help advance their respective civilization and the summit of the
Gods
 is formed with aims for the prosperity of all civilizations of the Six Worlds.

In exchange for the Human's knowledge, the other races also passed on their own knowledge and strength to the human race such as: The
Dragon Tribe
 teaches how to use the inner power of the body known as
Battle Aura
; The Demon Race teaches how to empower and transform their body so as to withstand the Battle Aura; The
Beast Race
 teaches how to tame ferocious beasts; The Ocean Race teaches how to purify water and keep it clean; And the Heaven Race teaches how to read the wind and control the weather.

Age of Chaos

The Age of Chaos Era is the period from
8,000 - 10, 000 years ago
 in the aftermath of the other five worlds being destroyed at the hands of the
First Dragon God
 and the surviving denizens fled to the Human World. The Human World was once an endless grasslands and hills now it has terrain features of the other worlds before they were destroyed. Most of the surviving race settled in continents that matches their previous world but the Humans and Demons are at ceaseless conflict on where to settle since at this time, the
Central Continent
 and
Demon Continent
 is a single massive continent called the Grand Continent.

First Human-Demon War

Around
7,000 years ago
,
Magic
 and martial skills has greatly advanced, as well as the population of the humans increased.
 However the
Mana
 also caused the younger humans to be afflicted with a disease called
Drain Syndrome
 but the disease was eventually eradicated as the human body adapt and increased their magic power.

It is also during this time that the conflict between the humans and demons escalated into a Great War called the First Human-Demon War led by Demon Empress
Kishirika Kishirisu
 and her 5 Great Demon Kings which lasted a thousand years with an interval of fierce battle and lulls between. Around 6,000 years ago, the Humans is lead by the Hero
Ars
 and together with his 6 comrades, they lead the fight until Kishirika and her Demon Kings are defeated. For his victory, the capital city of
Asura Kingdom
 is named after Ars which becomes the largest city in the Human World.

Second Human-Demon War

Around
5,500 years ago
, the Humans being victorious on the previous war that resulted to the demons being enslaved, they grew drunk with power and begin warring other races and among themselves that lasted for next 500 years. 5,000 years ago, Kishirika revives and once again rallies the demons to another war for vengeance for a thousand year grudge. The demon army established an alliance with the
Beast Race
 and
Ocean Race
 against the humans who were backed into a corner but they refused to surrender and continue to fight for the next 800 years.

Around
4200 years ago
, the Golden Knight
Aldebaran
 routes over 10,000 enemies by himself and the humans were able to push the demons back. Aldebaran also defeats all the powerful demons which also makes him a legend and an entry in history believes that he is the
Human God
 himself. But in the battle of Aldebaran against the
Fighting God
, Aldebaran's final attack causes the Grand Continent to implode, splitting it to several continents. With the continents now split and separated by
Ringus Sea
, the Second Human-Demon War ends where most of the humans settled in the
Central Continent
 or the southern region of the
Millis Continent
.

Traits

During the Six-Faced World era, the Human race is a weak race with the shortest lifespan which also forced them to learn quickly. However due to the Human World being rich in nature and abundant food, the Human race thrived faster than any other race, that causes their civilization to advance.

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Culture

In the
Asura Kingdom
, the Humans there only celebrate their birthday every 5 years where they are given gifts or celebrate parties especially by the nobility and by reaching 15 years old you are considered an adult.

Marriage is used as a recognition of a strong connection between families with the general notion that the head of the family decides on the marriage of their family members

In the Shirone Kingdom, the husband sends a gift to the bride's family over time while in the Milis Kingdom, where the family of the bride gives the husband a present while husband helps out when something is going on in the bride's home.

Humans with last names is usually seen among the nobilities as proof they are part of this family but those left their families also relinquish a portion of their last name as proof like
Eris Boreas Greyrat
 and
Paul Greyrat
 relinquishing their Boreas and Notos names respectively.

References