Information

Story

Relationships

Volume 13

Isolde, a
Water King
, accompanies her master
Reida Lia
 to the Sword Sanctum at the request of
Gall Falion
. In the
Asura Kingdom
, Isolde has no equal among her fellow disciples of the
Water God Style
 and has become arrogant, which saddens Reida as she senses that in the past year, Isolde hasn't grown at all despite taking her training seriously but in conceit. After Gall and Reida propose a bout between their students, Isolde exchange introductions with
Nina Fallion
 and
Eris Greyrat
, then first fights against Eris. Despite Eris' speed being in the top 10 among the students of the
Sword God Style
 and strength close to Sword King
Ghislaine Dedoldia
, Isolde defeats Eris to the point where she is unable to land a hit on Isolde (Eris would have "died" almost a hundred times). However, Nina defeats Isolde with 1 hit as she could not sense any bloodlust from Nina's attack and thus could not counterattack accordingly. Gall and Reida then have an agreement that from dawn to noon, Isolde, Eris, and Nina will train with their respective teachers, and from noon to dusk, the three will practice and train together.

Volume 14

One month later, a strange triple deadlock has formed where Eris beats Nina, Nina beats Isolde, and Isolde beats Eris. On one of the three's discussions, Isolde points out that Eris' constant release of bloodlust is something the Water God Style can easily counter while Nina points out that the release of bloodlust is unnecessary as long you are the faster one. During this time, Isolde admits that she feels getting stronger with Eris and Nina's help and is having fun as it is her first time having discussions with people of her level and age.

Volume 15

After a few years of training in the Sword Sanctum, Isolde is invited to Asura Kingdom to become a sword instructor in the Silver Palace and tells her friends that they should visit Asura Kingdom in the future, where she will give her a tour. During this time, Eris has reached Sword King rank and is also leaving for Sharia in Ranoa Kingdom. Before they depart, a letter from
Rudeus Greyrat
 arrives and Isolde reads it for Eris. Isolde becomes outraged at the contents of the letter, praying to Saint Millis and telling Eris to join her to Asura Kingdom instead of going to Ranoa while berating Rudeus for even asking Eris to become his third wife. Isolde then reads the second paper which is a postscript of Rudeus challenging the Dragon God
Orsted
. This causes Isolde and Nina to stiffen up in fear of those words. However, Eris smiles upon hearing this, gets on her horse, and tells Ghislaine that she will be late if they don't hurry while Isolde and Nina see them off with a dumbfounded expression.

Volume 17

Isolde reunites with Eris upon the latter's arrival to Ars, the Royal Capital in the Asura Kingdom. Isolde is currently a novice knight and well on her way to become a full-fledged knight of the Kingdom, with additional potential as either a palace sword instructor or a captain of the Royal Knights. She initially mistakes
Luke Greyrat
 as Rudeus and thus treats him coldly (due to having three wives), while taking an interest in Rudeus himself, unaware that this is actually Eris' husband.

She arrives to the sight of her master Water God Reida Lia using her technique on the entire party venue. Horrified, Isolde questions her master why is she doing this. In turn, Reida gives a cover-up story about how Isolde is to take her down and become the next carrier of the Water God Style. After
Orsted
 brutally kills Reida, Isolde cries in rage at him but he runs off, leaving Isolde cradling her dead grandmother in her arms.

Isolde visits Eris and Rudeus in the ten days after the events of Ariel's gathering, and after having gotten over her grief at her master's death. She properly introduces herself to the real Rudeus and notes that he actually takes good care of her dear friend despite having three wives. After teasing Eris for a bit and explaining the defused situation involving the former Water God's assassination attempt on Ariel, she takes Eris and Rudeus for a tour around the city.

Volume 26

Isolde, now a
Water Emperor
 and one of the
Seven Knights of Asura
, joins in the battle against the Fighting God, stepping in to save Rudeus. She plays a major role by acting as a frontliner, skillfully parrying and countering the Fighting God's violent blows - any of which could have been lethal - and making them look like a child's tantrum. After the Fighting God is defeated, she accompanies Rudeus as a guard to see Geese in his final moments. She then gets knocked out with the rest of the guard by a resurrected
North God Kalman III
 wearing Fighting God armor and wielding the King Dragon Sword Kajakut.

After Kalman III is defeated, Isolde finally departs with the rest of her crew and thanks Rudeus for the educational experience of fighting such a powerful opponent.

Redundant Reincarnation





Doga proposing to Isolde in the dojo.



Isolde is currently the new
Water God
 after mastering three out of the five secret arts of Water God Style. She seeks a suitor for marriage but to no avail as none fit her personal preferences. In a sudden turn, North Emperor
Doga
 confesses his feelings to Isolde and asks her to marry him while carrying a bouquet of blue flowers, but Isolde initially rejects him due to their responsibilities as Ariel's personal knights and arrangements by Ariel (at her own request) to marry royalty. However, Isolde is moved after Doga quits his position for the opportunity to be with her and with encouragement from Ariel, who tells Isolde that there is no greater honor for a woman than Doga's personal sacrifice. Isolde then realizes that there is no one else who loves her more than Doga, probably. She is deeply touched, having been reminded of the first Water God's tale with the runaway princess, and accepts Doga's proposal.

They get to know each other and marry after one year, eventually having one daughter who looks like Isolde herself. During the couple's private moments, she is affectionate with her husband and calls Doga 'darling.'