Information

Story

Relationships

Doga





Doga confessing to Isolde a second time after he quits his position as one of Asura's Seven Royal Knights.



Doga is her husband whom she affectionately calls 'darling' in private. Initially acquaintances by virtue of their positions, Doga first took notice of Isolde in a match against her where she won by a landslide, remarking she moved like a "graceful and beautiful flower." It was then when he fell in love with Isolde.

When Doga confessed to her with the help of Ariel, Isolde was so smitten with Doga giving up his job and wanting to protect her, that she was reminded of the first Water God's story about how he gave everything up for a princess. Isolde considers Doga to be far above the countless Asuran nobles in terms of character and personality with whom she's interviewed, regardless of looks. She accepted his proposal and they got to know each other for one year, after which they married. They have one daughter.

When Rudeus spied on them, he noted that Doga looked extremely happy, and that the couple were lovey-dovey with each other.

Doga is considered to be better than Isolde at being the 'househusband' from cooking to cleaning, which makes her monotone as she admits this.

Reida Lia

Reida Lia is Isolde's grandmother as well as her master. As her prized pupil, Isolde held a high opinion of her and would listen to her requests such as extended training in the Sword Sanctum. They were close enough that Reida considered her as her successor to the Water God Style. When Reida died at the hands of Dragon God Orsted, Isolde was visibly distraught and overcome with fury against him. It took her a few days after the incident to get over the grief of losing her master, but noted with respect that she at least died a swordsman's death - rare for this day and age.

Eris Greyrat





Isolde approaches Eris at Ars Capital in Asura Kingdom.



Eris is one of the few friends she made at the Sword Sanctum and still keeps in touch with. When Isolde first met Eris, she held a patronizing view of her along with the rest of Sword God Style. This was reinforced by the fact that she easily beat Eris, a Sword Saint with speed and power approaching Ghislaine's at the time. However, thanks to Nina and the three-way deadlock among the three girls, Isolde was able to properly teach and learn from Eris thereby initiating a real friendship.

During Eris' departure, Isolde gets upset on her behalf for Rudeus' brazen letter suggesting Eris be taken in as his third wife, showing concern for her friend. When Eris later visits Ars Capital in Asura Kingdom, Isolde calls out to Eris and briefly catches up with her.

After the conflict where Ariel secures her position to the throne, Isolde visits Eris again and makes peace with her, not blaming her, Rudeus, or Ghislaine for Reida Lia's death. She takes Eris around for a tour of the city and genuinely enjoyed her time with each other.

Isolde is experienced at handling Eris and her explosive personality. After backing down from a provoked challenge and defusing the situation, she was regarding Eris with the patronizing smile of someone who’d just tossed a dog a bone.

As
Ars Greyrat
 noted in his encounters with various swordsmen, Isolde was among those who said that Eris isn't an opponent who could be defeated so easily.