Information

Relationships

Nina Britts (née Farion)

When he returned with the title of Sword God, he swept Nina up and kissed her forcefully... that day, Nina had become Gino's in both mind and body.

—
Nina Farion

Nina is Jino's first cousin, childhood friend, and eventually wife. They grew up training together and Jino has always followed Nina in whatever she did, whether it be forming secret organizations for Sword God Style children or sparring together. Even though Nina would treat him like an underling, the two often understood each other best - when Nina frustratingly lost to Eris Greyrat in the selection to becoming a Sword King, they simply stayed silent and kept on training.

Jino eventually developed feelings for Nina during their training sessions and they consummated their relationship. It was his love and desire for Nina that finally motivated Jino enough to put in "work" towards achieving a "goal": to be with Nina in marriage after he was rejected by her father, Gal Farion. He became strong enough to defeat the current Sword God, and this earned him Nina's deep admiration too. Nina also takes Jino's family name upon marriage.

After becoming Sword God, he wields his sword only for the sake of himself and his family, proving his deep love for them. He also made Nina a Sword Emperor as a gift. During training halls in the Sword Sanctum, he is often seen cuddling with Nina at his side, oblivious to others' disapproving looks. He only cares for Nina and will do anything she commands him to, such as mock battles with Eris Greyrat and Kalman III.

Gal Farion

Gal Farion is Jino's uncle, former teacher, and his predecessor to the title of
Sword God
. Gal always tried pushing a young Jino to work harder and take swordsmanship more seriously, who simply practiced it out of habit and due to family pressure. He even tried to encourage him to adventure out into the world, to no avail. When Jino came to ask for Nina's hand in marriage, Gal saw it as an opportunity to motivate Jino into getting stronger - which he did, to the point of beating Gal in a 1-on-1. After that, Gal was crushed and held Jino in contempt yet begrudging respect. On the other hand, Jino bears no animosity towards Gal and wishes to uphold his former master's teachings: to wield the sword for one's self.

Eris Greyrat

Gal Farion: "See? Naive, right?"
Eris: "He really was , huh."

Eris is an acquaintance that Jino made at the
Holy Land of Swords
. Eris' first impression of Jino is that she thought he was a weak runt, and she never paid any attention to him.
 Despite being completely defeated by Eris during their first meeting, Jino did not see this defeat as a huge change since losing was an everyday occurrence to him due to frequent sparring and losing against Gal or even Nina in the past. Eris is responsible for Nina's growth after training together with Eris, who secretly trained with Jino during their free time; this made Jino begin to fall in love with Nina.

Eventually, when she fought Sword God Jino directly in a mock battle, she was frustrated but acknowledged his overwhelming superiority against her. Nevertheless, they remain on friendly, humble terms with each other, with Jino saying that Eris wouldn't back down in the old days and complementing her on her matured self-control. As
Ars Greyrat
 noted in his encounters with various swordsmen, Jino was among those who said that Eris isn't an opponent who could be defeated so easily.

Ghislaine Dedoldia

"The world is a place where even the most talented swordsman die. If you don't know how to use
Magic
 or math, or how to read, death will come swiftly."

-Ghislaine

Sword King Ghislaine Dedoldia is the 4th in rank at the Sword God Style and is Jino's senior who travelled around the
world
 as a famous
Adventurer
. When Ghislaine returns to the Holy Land of Swords, Ghislaine tells Jino stories of her journey. Unlike the adults, Ghislaine's serious face causes Jino to believe her warning since like the rest of the children in the region, he does not know how to read, write, use Magic nor know math. Despite this, Jino is still not interested in leaving his homeland to go for an adventure like Nina did as he fears of not being able to solve anything with swordsmanship alone.

Rudeus Greyrat

Rudeus is someone that Jino respects, primarily because of their similar love for their respective families. Jino has heard stories of Rudeus, such as how he would attack the Dragon God and even destroy a whole country to protect his family, which piqued his interest in Rudeus. As a result, Jino trusts that he will uphold their neutrality pact. Rudeus, on the other hand, finds Jino somewhat terrifying due to the cold bloodlust as a result of a misunderstanding, and somewhat eccentric due to his constant public display of affection with Nina during training.

References