This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

Juliette (
ジュリエット
)
, nickname
Julie
 is a young female
Dwarf

Slave
 that Rudeus and Zanoba purchased from a slave market to help them in the making of dolls.

Appearance

Due to her Dwarf Heritage, Julie is a small girl with a very thin frame, pale skin, and unkempt, feathery light red-orange hair. When she was a slave, Julie is deathly thin and undernourished. After she became Zanoba's servant, Julie is seen with a once piece sleeved white clothes with skirt and dark sandals.

Personality

At first she was apathetic and in despair for being a slave, but after
Rudeus
 and
Zanoba
 bought her she gradually started showing feelings, started toddling around Zanoba, asking about things that interested her, and, befitting her age, she likes to have someone read her books and tell her stories.

Background






Julie during the time she is a slave in the Anime



Julie is the only child of Bazelle, a blacksmith and Lilitella, a jewelcrafter. At some point because of debt, she and her parents were sold into slavery where Julie's parents were already sold while Julie remains in a Slave Market in
Sharia
 due to being undernourished and sick where she first meets Rudeus, Zanoba and Fitts.

Plot

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Powers and Abilities






Julie successfully casting Chantless Earth Magic in the Anime



『Magic』

Julie is trained by Rudeus in Earth Magic to create dolls for Zanoba and since Julie is a dwarf, she has a strong affinity to Earth Magic and Fire Magic but is more focused on the former.

『Chantless Spellcasting』

Julie is one of the few people who can cast Chantless spells that she learns under the guidance of
Rudeus
. During this time, there is no formal method of teaching Chantless Spellcasting so Rudeus calls this peculiar method of training an experiment. At the beginning of each day, Rudeus trains Julie to cast magic with
Incantations
 and after that Rudeus would not teach her anymore incantations and make her silently conjure clumps of earth instead. After one month of training, she successfully learns Chantless Spellcasting for Earth Magic.

Mana

Since being trained in Magic by Rudeus since she was six years old, Juliette also possess a high amount of mana which is increased during childhood. Although this is an accepted fact in Rudeus' family and part of their training, teachers of the Ranoa Magic Academy is only a theory and for the case of Rudeus, Sylphiette and Juliette is a special case.

Intellectual Abilities

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Physical Abilities

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Equipment

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Achievements

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Quotes

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Trivia

Juliette (Julie) is the name Rudeus gave her after he and Zanoba bought her.

Incidentally she is named after
Zanoba's
 younger brother Julius whom he accidentally killed.

References