This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

Aleksander Ryback
 (
アレクサンダー
・
ライバック
)
, better known as
Kalman III
, is the third generation and current North God of
North God Style
. Initially part of
Hitogami's
 faction, he later joins
Orsted's

faction
 after being defeated by him during the
final battle
 of the series.

Appearance

Aleksander is described by
Rudeus
 as a young boy with black hair, around the age of
Paul
 as of
Rudeus
' birth.

Personality

Aleksander is a determined person. Due to the way he was raised, he is obsessed with becoming a hero and surpassing his
father
. To achieve such a goal, he did everything in his power to gain fame among the public.

After his crushing defeat against
Orsted
, his personality changed greatly. He becomes much humbler and obedient to his superiors in order to learn to "be a hero".

By his own admission, he isn't very good with words and is a bit of a simple minded person, which is a trait he Inherited from his
grandmother
 in a lesser degree.

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Background

Aleksander became the North God early in his age and he had 20 students who after a few years, they parted ways with Alek to walk their own paths which resulted to Alek never taking another disciple.

Plot

Volume 25 - Young Man Period - Decisive Battle Chapter

He worked as one of
Gisu
's associates in order to destroy the
Superd Tribe
 and kill
Orsted
, with the objective of achieving the title of "Hero". He however, cared very little about the circumstances of the Superd or
Hitogami
 scheme and was only interested in the fame that came with the Hero title.
Rudeus
 and company were able to defeat him after an intense battle and was considered dead for a while. However, as he is a descendant of
Atofe
 it was only a matter of time until his body regenerated. He was eventually defeated by
Orsted
 after a very one sided battle that lasted only 10 minutes and in which he ended up losing both arms. He subsequently ended up becoming another subordinate of
Orsted
 and member of the
ORSTED Corporation
.

When Rudeus is on missions for Orsted, he usually leaves Alek to protect and watch over his children especially
Sieghart Saladin Greyrat
 who really likes the stories about his father.

In Orsted's knowledge of the original history, Alek fell into despair after losing to
Jino Britts
 and took a single child as his disciple who was no way talented but by watching him grow and correcting himself, he matured to be a true North God. In the second
Laplace
 Wars, Alek proved himself to be history's strongest North God. Orsted suggests that Alek train Sieghart in the North God Style with the intention of the same outcome in the current timeline with Alek teaching Sieghart.

Powers and Abilities

North God Swordsmanship

As the current and third generation leader of the North God Sword Style, he is a very powerful combatant.

Equipped with the King Dragon Sword Kajakuto he could fight against
Eris
,
Ruijerd
 and
Kalman II
 while having the upper hand until he was forced to flee after
Rudeus
 and
Atofe
 joined the fight. After acquiring the Fighting God Armor, he defeated
Ruijerd
,
Ghyslaine
 and
Isolte
 with a single move and forced Orsted to fight seriously, using the Godsword against him.

Immortality

As a descendant of
Atofe
, a Demon Lord of the
Immortal Demon Race
, he is also immortal and will recover from wounds that would kill a normal being as well as being long lived.

Equipment

King Dragon Sword Kajakut

The strongest sword with the ability to manipulate gravity.

Fighting God Armor

After obtaining a piece of the Golden Armor, he equipped it. The Golden Fighting God Armor changes its shape according to its wearer and can regenerate by drawing on the power of the user.

Moon Glitter

Moon Glitter is a large, heavy two handed sword with a jet black blade created by Ore God
Godbard
 out of the black ore created by Rudeus. Due to Moon Glitter being able to blend to the night but reflects the moonlight as proof of its existence, Orsted names it Moon Glitter. Alek later gives Moon Glitter to Sieghart to assist his friend
Pax Jr.
.

Achievements

He was a part of the
Seven Great World Powers
 until he was defeated by Rudeus (albeit with his allies).

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Quotes

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Trivia

Ironically enough, after being defeated by
Orsted
, he joined
Orsted
's group in an almost similar way
Rudeus
 did (Kneeling, Losing both of his hands).

After the battle with
Orsted
, he sealed his dominant arm to learn about the true meaning of what it is to be a 'hero'.

References