Information

Chronology

Relationship

Power and Abilities

Gallery

Kishirika Kishirisu
 (
キシリカ・キシリス
,

Kishirika Kishirissu
)
 is a member of the
Immortal Demon Clan
 and the former empress of the
Demon Continent
.

Spoilers ahead!

She is a recurring character who usually offers aid to
Rudeus
 and his acquaintances as thanks her doing her favors, having been the one who granted him his
Demon Eye
.

Appearance

Headless statue of Kishirika before her death.

Kishirika looks like a little girl with curve-less figure. She has pale skin, voluminous and wavy violet hair, and a pair of goat-like horns. She also has different color eyes that can spin to change color, due to her various
Demon Eyes
.

Personality

Kishirika is hilariously simple-minded, gullible and carefree, yet being haughty and ambitious. She is depicted as using the 妾 (
warawa
, lit. "mistress") pronoun to refer to herself, which is usually used in fictional settings to represent archaic noble female characters. She will gratefully grant a wish within her power, for anyone who helps her.

She loves her
fiancé
 but she doesn't mind if he sleeps with other women, mostly because they can't be intimate with her child-like body for the time being.

It's worth noting that she tends to hold grudges; when
Rudeus
 knocked her out for her mistake and handed her over to
Atofe
, she was mad at him and almost didn't help him escape from Atofe's castle.

Background

Kishirika Kishirisu was the daughter of the
First Demon God
 and the then Demon Empress
Kirisis Calisis
. She was an infant when her father was killed by the
First Dragon God
, and was saved from the collapsing Demon World by the Demon King
Necross Lacross
 (Badigadi and Atofe's Father) and Demon Dragon King
Laplace
 and grew up in the Human World.

During the Human-Demon Great War, Kishirika Kishirisu, the Immortal Demon Empress who commanded the magic race, engaged in battle but suffered a swift defeat, leading to her imprisonment for three centuries.

Following her reincarnation, she would boldly declare her true identity, yet her claims were often met with disbelief or indifference. Frequently faced with hunger, she finds herself living more as a beggar than an Empress.

Plot

Volume 2 - Infancy Period

Before the
Teleport Incident
, she was one of the many who took notice of the phenomena that was occurring over the
city of Roa
. She attempted to see what was the cause with her many
Demon Eyes
, however, it appeared that the culprit skillfully concealed their identity.

Volume 4 - Juvenile Period - Voyage

Rudeus
, under the guidance of
Hitogami
, encountered Kishirika in an alley in Wind Port, being pulled by a strange man. Misunderstanding the situation, he attacked the man, knocking him out in one hit. However, Kishirika was starving, as she hadn't eaten  much since she had been reborn, so Rudeus gave her some food. She gratefully accepted, and in exchange, offered him a demon eye, suggesting he take the
Foresight Eye
. Rudeus agreed, however not realizing that he was speaking to the real Kishirika. He was thus surprised when she actually changed his eye into the Foresight eye.

Volume 6 - Juvenile Period - Homecoming Chapter






Kishirika using her Clairvoyant Eyes to locate Rudeus' Family



Kishirika had a drinking contest against
Tallhand
 who she defeated but was nearly taken in as a slave for being unable to pay for the drinks.
Roxy
 paid for her, saving the situation. In gratitude, Kishirika informed Roxy of where Rudeus' family was located at Roxy's request, with her
Clairvoyant Eye
 and also informed her that
Zenith
 was in the
Teleport Labyrinth
 at the
Begaritt Continent
.

Volume 14 - Young Man Period - Summoning Chapter

A year prior, Kishirika had found herself in
Rikarisu Town
 and ended up drinking a large amount of wine, which belonged to
Atoferatofe Rybak
. As a result, Atoferatofe came to Rikarisu in search of Kishirika to punish her. However, she didn't know how Kishirika currently looked and thus couldn't find her.

Kishirika, however, spent that time starving in the city, trying to get food, while wearing a hood. Eventually, when Rudeus and his company arrived in the town with
Cliff
 giving food to Kishirika, who he believed was simply a beggar. She later gave Cliff an
Identification eye
.

Volume 22 - Young Man Period - Organization Chapter

She was tricked by Atoferatofe Rybak's imperial guards and imprisoned. Later on, she met
Rudeus
 who gave her donuts and asked her to find a man named
Geese
. She also revealed the truth about the Fighting God, and that she and
Badigadi
 were formerly
Hitogami
's apostles and told Rudeus to be wary of Badigadi due to him still feeling indebted to
Hitogami
. She gave Rudeus the
Clairvoyant Eye
 for giving her a donut. Before she left, Atofe asked her the location of Earl and
Kalman III
, but Kishirika rejected until Rudeus showed her
Randolph
's ring. She promised Rudeus that she would  help with anything as long as it doesn't involve
Hitogami
.

Quotes

To Rudeus:
 “My belly aches from the hunger…and this man was going to provide me with a meal”.

Atofe's soldiers:
 "Lord Kishirika, please cease this! Please do not provoke Lord Atofe any further!"

Kishirika:
 "Shut up! This One followed you lot because you told This One you would feed This One something good and all This One gets is poor treatment! This One shan't feel better until This One has said at least that much!"

Trivia

She has low metabolism (compared to a human's), so eating about 14 skewers can last her one year.

Kishirika said that
Rudeus
 is "disgusting" when she saw him for the first time, wondering if he was a twin with a stillborn brother
. This is due to Rudeus' having an immense quantity of magic power/mana.

This is omitted in the anime, where Kishirika just said he's disgusting without mentioning anything else.

She and
Badigadi
 were once
Hitogami
's apostles before the Human-Demon Great War.

She hates
Hitogami
 and even told Rudeus that he could ask for her help for anything as long as it doesn't involve Hitogami.

In
Episode 12
, Kishirika switches her eyes like a slot machine and also show some fruits before switching to her Magic Power Eyes on Rudeus.

A running gag in series is that Rudeus occasionally imagines the possibility of Kishirika appearing out of nowhere, like being born as his child or summoned from a magic circle.

It is hinted that Kishirika possesses a large amount of mana, as
Orsted
 said she can't be summoned by the small summoning magic circle he made for
Rudeus
 due to her mana capacity
.

According to Badigadi, she cannot leave the Demon Continent
.

References