This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!





A book for learning Human Tongue to Demon God Tongue (red characters) in the Anime



In the
Six-Faced World
, there are many different
languages
, mainly determined by
Races
 and geographic. Accent do differ between locations.

Human Tongue

Human languages ​​are used by the human race, human languages ​​are one of the languages ​​that do not bear the name of the God of their race. Humans in the Central Continent and Millis Continent use human languages. These two languages ​​are divided with a great difference but they coexist in the same human kingdom with contrast, but there are slight differences in the accents between these continents, such as the difference between American English and British English.[1]

In the
Anime
, Human Tongue is simplified to Japanese (or other languages) in most cases.
Paul Greyrat
 and
Zenith Greyrat
 are the only characters who had spoken Human Tongue in the first of
Episode one
.
Silent Fitz
,
Nanahoshi Shizuka
, and
Rudeus Greyrat
 also spoke Human Tongue in Season 2, Episode 9,
The White Mask
.




Human language alphabet english version



Spoken Language

The spoken language of Human Language is based on the Basque language, but undergoes consonant substitutions. The vowels are unchanged but most consonant are swapped. For example, the word “magic” in Human language will be pronounced as “pavia”. First, the word “magic” is translated to Basque, which is “magia”. Then, change change the consonant, which gets “pavia”

Beast God Tongue

The Beast God Tongue is used by the
Beast Race
,
Dwarves
, and
Elf
 which mainly lived in the
Great Forest
 in the
Millis Continent
. Named after the
Beast God
.






Basque edition of the human language alphabet



In the
Anime
, the Beast God Tongue is first debuted in the episode
Missed Connections
.

Demon God Tongue

The Demon God Tongue is used in the
Demon Races
, which mainly lived in the
Demon Continent
. It is named after the
First Demon God
. Some races such as
Migurd
 communicate telepathically, most of the cannot speak Demon God Tongue.






Provisional alphabet of   阿泥妹飯 @AnimeFan2333. Zulu character correspondence table in Demonic Language; Note that there are consonant substitutions.



In the
Anime
, the Demon God Tongue is mainly used when
Roxy Migurdia
 communicates with other Demon races.

Fighting God Tongue

Fighting God Tongue is used by
Humans
 lived in the
Begaritt Continent
, it is named after the Fighting God, which is one of the
Seven Great Powers
, but not an actual
God
. The Fighting God Tongue is slightly similar to the Human Tongue but the only differences are the vocabulary and way of things are expressed which Rudeus describes to be English mixed with German in it.

Sky God Tongue

Sky God tongue is used by the
Heaven race
, named after the
Heaven God
.

Ocean God Tongue

Used by the Ocean Race, named after the Ocean God.

References