This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

Information

Relationships

First Dragon God

"Hmm. I decided to come after hearing that there was a monster with the form of a man but... How interesting. A mixed race of
Demons
 and
Dragons
. Where and how were you born?"

-TheFirst Dragon God on meeting Laplace

Laplace first meets the First Dragon God after the latter is wounded by a
monster with many heads
 where Laplace was at the brink of death due to being poisoned and bleeding. After healing his wounds, the First Dragon God takes Laplace to the
Dragon World
 and adopts him to be his son
 where he would eventually become one of his
Five Dragon Generals
 after capturing
Necrolia Nacrolia
, Crystal's killer.
 Laplace would then accompany the First Dragon God as his assistant on the summit of the
Gods
 where he is presented as proof that the Dragon Tribe has no hatred towards the Demon Race and they agree to have peace and Laplace would become the ambassador on behalf of the Dragon Tribe to the other worlds.

Lunaria

"You're Dragon God's adopted son, then you are my child as well. Please rest assured, this is your home too."

Lunaria to Laplace

Lunaria welcomes Laplace after the First Dragon God adopts him and would also cares for Laplace while he adjust to his new life that Laplace would consider Lunara to be her mother.
 After Laplace begins working for Dora, he would also spend time with Lunaria telling about his work on training dragons like a family.

Dora

"Show respect and submit to me. I don't tell lies. Be true and trust me with all your heart. No whimpering or saying I can't. Its a waste of time. If you don't give up, I will surely raise you into a fine dragon warrior."

-Dora to Laplace

At the First Dragon God's instructions, Armored Dragon General Dora educates Laplace on words of the Dragon Tribe Tongue that he learns after a year followed by writing, history, geography, status, relationships, etiquette, industry and other common knowledge of the Dragon Tribe then she trains Laplace on becoming a Dragon Warrior and how to fly.

After Laplace completes his training under her wing, she assigns Laplace to train Dragons that is the main mount of the Dragon Tribe and later names him to be his substitute an supervising the Dragon Training Grounds since the spawning season has started.
 After Laplace captures
Crystal
's killer, Dora is among the Dragon Generals who approved Laplace to be Crystal's successor as the Demon Dragon General of the First Dragon God.

Perugius Dola

"I have a request for those who read this book. There is a child of the Dragon Tribe who does not know his name in this world. I have forgotten many things that happened, but this too was one of my missions. This child has silvery hair, must be a nameless man by now. Please tell him, "Your real true name is Perugius." Perugius, son of Dora-sama, the Great Dragon King Dora"

-Laplace

After Laplace captures
Crystal
's killer, Laplace reports this to Dora who is grateful for what he has done and asks Laplace to name her and Crystal's child. Although Laplace was reluctant but decides to name the child Perugius, which also makes him to be Perugius' godfather.

Saleyakt

Saleyakt is the first Red Dragon the Laplace tames but instead of taming him in how the Dragon Tribe does, he forms a bond with him by eating and sleeping together but Saleyakt would only listen to Laplace.
 Saleyakt would also help Laplace tame other dragons
 and later saves him after his battle against
Necrolia Nacrolia
 and remains to be his companion in the Dragon World and later the Human World.

Necross Lacross

Necross Lacross first meets Laplace when he was still living in the Demon World where he would defeat and kick him out when he tries to enter the city. After the
Gods
 agreed to cooperate, Laplace and Necross Lacross recruited collaborators from the
Six-Faced World
 to serve as ambassadors to assist other worlds to advance each other's civilization.

Before the destruction of the Demon World, Laplace is assigned to witness its destruction and finds Necross fleeing and upon learning what has happened to him, Laplace tells him to use the portal to reach the Human World.

--To be added

Orsted

Rostelina

Chaos

References