This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

Information

Relationships

Laplace
 (
ラプラス
,

Rapurasu
)
 is a powerful demon who waged war against humanity 500 years ago before being sealed by the
Seven Great Heroes
. In reality, there are actually two Laplaces,
Demon God Laplace
 and
Technique God Laplace
, having been split into two whilst fighting the
Fighting God
. While it is mentioned that he will revive in the future, neither of his two halves actually appear in the main story.

Appearance

"A mixed race of demons and dragons. Where and how were you born?"

-First Dragon God

Being born with
Dragon Tribe
 and Demon blood, Demon Dragon King Laplace before he was split in two was described as over 2 meter tall with silver hair with patches of green but has lesser scales compared to those of the Dragon Tribe. In addition he had fangs, claws. a set of wings, transparent white skin and two golden eyes.

Demon/Magic God Laplace was described to have emerald green hair, and gentle eyes.

Personality

"I killed beasts and ate them, but the lonely feeling did not heal."
-Laplace

In his early life at the Demon World, Laplace lives a primal life where he would prey, live and die by instinct by feeding of the demonic beasts at the corner of the Demon World. But after seeing a family of demonic beasts together, Laplace begins to feel a sense of loneliness that he is unable to cope with and begins to search for people like him and eventually finds a town but is seen as a monster. Despite being treated as a monster and being forced to retreat, he persisted to return as he does not want to feel lonely
 which persisted even when he begins to live in the
Human World
 until
Rostelina
 joins him.

Ever since being brought to the Dragon World, Laplace is fiercely loyal and devoted to the
First Dragon God
 who saved his life and
Lunaria
 who he considers like her real mother even though they are not related by blood. Even after the destruction of the Dragon World, Laplace faithfully follows the First Dragon God's last mission to him to prepare techniques, magic and knowledge for
Orsted
 to defeat
Hitogami
.

Background

Meeting the First Dragon God

"Alright. If the Demon God neglected you for so long, he wouldn't mind if I just take you away, even though there are so many uses, what a waste..."

First Dragon God

Even Laplace himself does not know where he was born. Ever since becoming aware as a child, Laplace found himself in a cave at the corner of the
Demon World
, a land of death, full of miasma and roaming demonic beasts where he goes hunting monsters for food and sleeping on a regular basis. Laplace soon felt lonely after witnessing some demonic beasts huddling and playing with each other and decides to wander and finds a demon town but its inhabitants viewed him as a monster and the Demon King of the town fought and injured him but he manages to escape. Laplace would eventually encounter a hydra that spits fire and poison mist where his injuries from it would not heal like it normally does after eating and sleeping.

On the brink of death, Laplace is saved by the
First Dragon God
 and brings him to the
Dragon World
, an inverted land where the mountains grew from above while a clear blue endless sky and white clouds is seen below. Upon arriving at the First Dragon God's home in Kayos,
Lunaria
 greets them and the First Dragon God tells her that he plans to raise the child with her and gives him the name Laplace.

Dragon Warrior Training and Dragon Tamer

Laplace is then trained by
Dora
 at the command of the First Dragon God to become a Dragon Warrior and for the next decades, Laplace is trained on how to speak the Dragon God Language along with different subjects about the Dragon World, how to use
Dragon Battle Aura
 and how to fly.
 After completing his Dragon Warrior training, Laplace becomes Dora's subordinate and his first task is to train dragons that are the mounts used by the Dragon Tribe. This is where he first meets a
red dragon
 who was initially hostile towards him but eventually is able to tame him. Laplace names him Saleyakt and afterwards he would rise into prominence because of his ability to train dragons that are considered untrainable by traditional methods.

During the spawning season, Laplace becomes Dora's temporary replacement on being in charge of all the dragon training facilities in the Dragon World and his work is appraised highly even by
Maxwell
 for the high quality dragons that he trains and being used by his unit.
 After
Crystal
's death, Laplace attends the meeting with the First Dragon God and the Dragon Generals where he is there as Dora's substitute. Laplace is assigned to conduct further investigation after Maxwell who also aids him by assigning
Gora and Scrubava
 to assist him in the investigation.

Search for Crystal's Killer

Despite the support from the Dragon Generals and his subordinates, Laplace is still struggling to find the suspect for years until the
Human God
 appears in his dreams and tells him about his
Demon Eye
 that he uses to look at the Gold Dragon's nest where Crystal's remains were found. With the use of his Demon Eye, Laplace found a trace of the culprit and managed to locate his hideout but the culprit
Necrolia Nacrolia
, is also in the hideout and kills Gora and Scrubava leaving Laplace to battle the Demon King on his own. After days of fighting both Laplace and Necrolia are on the verge of exhaustion and in desparation, Laplace unconsciously uses Dragon Battle Aura Explosion which destroys the mountain they were fighting . Laplace is the first to wake up and realizes that Saleyakt has brought him and Necrolia to the ledge they are at now then he restrains Necrolia's arms and legs and brings him back to Kayos.

Laplace is welcomed by
Szilard
 who handles the interrogation of Necrolia and the Dragon Warriors stationed at the gate also are shouting with joy for capturing the culprit. Laplace fell into deep sleep for three days and three nights afterwards then had a meal with
Lunaria
, reports to
Maxwell
 that his subordinates has died in battle and finally visited
Dora
 who has already finished spawning safely. After reporting his capture of Crystal's killer, Dora asks him to give their child a name to which he names him
Perugius
.

Demon Dragon General Laplace

Another meeting is held by the First Dragon God and the Dragon Generals where Laplace reports of his search for Crystal's killer, the
Human God
 appearing in his dream and telling him about his
Demon Eye
, his battle and eventual capture of Necrolia then he hands Necrolia over to
Szilard
. After Szilard's report, the Dragon Generals urged the First Dragon God to go to war against the Demon World but the First Dragon God refuses and will negotiate with them instead. At the suggestion of Szilard to reward Laplace for his accomplishment, the First Dragon God names him Demon Dragon General Laplace and the successor of
Crystal
 as a Dragon General.

New Mission at the Human World

Demon/Magic Dragon King Laplace was the sole survivor left of the Five Dragon Generals after the incident which caused the inhabitant of the four destroyed Worlds to escape into the Human World and the collapse of the Dragon World. He was the second generation Dragon God after the first passed away.

Laplace escaped the collapsing Dragon World and drifted to Human world. He became the second generation Dragon God. He researched about methods and techniques to overthrow
Hitogami
. He taught to those who called themselves "Dragon God" the techniques he had developed over a long time. All for the sake of passing down the power to
Orsted
 who came to the future, and said to possessed the greatest strength among the dragon-tribe.

He went to human-demon race world war where he fought against
Fighting God
 who was Human God's apostle and his soul was split into two halves. Laplace, who was split in two, lost his memory and became two, the human-hating [Demon/Magic God] and [Technique God], whose aim was to overthrow god.

[Demon/Magic God] Laplace lost the power of
dragons
. He only remembered the enormous amount of magic knowledge and that he must definitely kill 'human' forgetting the God part. For that purpose, he rallied the demon race to exterminate the 'human race'. He was cursed the same way
Orsted
 was, however he was able to transfer the curse to the
Superd race
.

[Technique God] Laplace who lost the power of magic, only remembered the enormous amount of techniques and that he must definitely teach and pass them down to someone. Thus Technique God created the Seven Great Powers ranking and devoted himself in studying those techniques.

Plot

Mushoku Tensei

Mushoku Tensei Sequel

Since the planned sequel series seems to be taking place around the time which the Demon God Laplace would finally reincarnate, it is very likely that he will finally make his debut here. Particularly, he is set to play a vital role in several major storylines. Most obvious is
Perugius'
 quest to finally kill him for good and avenge the members of the Seven Great Heroes who died whilst sealing him 500 years ago. However, he is also set to be deeply involved with
Orsted's
 quest to kill
Hitogami
, since he holds the final key the former needs to enter the latter's realm. If the events play out like in Orsted's previous loops, then
Ruijerd
 and
Norn's
 daugther,
Luicelia
, will play a major role in his eventual defeat.

Power and Abilities

Dragon Battle Aura

Trained by Dora to be a Dragon Warrior, Laplace's
Fang Technique
 has enough destructive power to be considered "deadly" and is among the few Dragon Warriors who can match Dora in combat.

Dragon Battle Aura Explosion

During the battle against Necrolia Nacrolia, Laplace concentrated his remaining strength in desperation, which caused his Dragon Battle Aura to swell below his heart and to explode like a suicide bomb, with enough force to destroy an entire mountain and was felt even in Kayos. However, he admitted that he did not know how to activate this ability.

Original Self

Before he was split into two beings, Laplace was considered the most powerful entity in the world. As one of the Five Dragon Generals, he had enormous physical strength, night vision and a demon eye that allowed him to track and sense enemies. Laplace could also fly.

Technique God

Technique God Laplace has the Dragon Power and knows many techniques in the world to overthrow 'God'. He created the Seven Major World Power system and ranked himself 1st. But, he loses some part of his memories, leading him to only remember his objective is to overthrow 'God' by teaching those who call themselves Dragon God all of his technique and lost all of his Magic Power, making him unable to use magic and knows only physical combat.

Demon/Magic God

Demon/Magic God Laplace has the enormous Magic Power and a master of all magic. He lead the demon race to exterminate 'Human' 400 years ago and ranked 4th in the Seven Major World Power system. But, he loses some part of his memories, leading him to only remember his objective is to kill 'Human' by leading the demon race in his military campaign and lost all of his Dragon Power, making him unable to use battle aura. Although he could not use battle aura, he was still so strong that he killed four of the seven heroes that led humanity in the Laplace War and the remaining three(
Dragon God Urupen
,
Perugius
,
North God Kalman
) were unable to kill him even with the help of
Ruijerd Superdia
 who could see his weak point with his third eye and thus, had to seal him to end the war.

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Equipment

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Achievements

Original Self

Is considered a talented Dragon Trainer whose dragons that he tamed are appraised highly by Maxwell.

Defeated and captured one of the Eight Demon Kings Necrolia Nacrolia, who killed Crystal.

Achieved the title of Dragon King under the first Dragon God.

Became the second to hold the title of Dragon God following the first one's death.

Is the one of known living survivors of the Dragon World along with Saleyakt and Perugius before its destruction.

Demon God

United the entire demon race under his rule and led their most successful war against humanity.

Technique God

Created the
Seven Great Powers
 system.

Though having rank himself #1, the Technique God is actually a placeholder for his original self.

Note: This section is under construction and revision

Quotes

"Let's continue the story once I'm done. No worries, because no story is as miserable as those of Dragon World’s."

Trivia

Laplace is formerly a second generation Dragon God.

Similar to Orsted, he holds a curse of fear and hate, which according to
Perugius
 is a curse that shakes the innermost heart of people.

He sent his traits into the future people so that he could reincarnate into the future. This is a technique used by the Ancient Dragon Race, and is a required step to prevent his soul from being rejected by an incompatible body. As a result, many people have recently been born with traits similar to him. (This has been called the "Laplace Factor")

Kishirika Kishirisu
 describes him as a handsome looking guy.

His name is likely a reference to scholar
Pierre-Simon Laplace
 and
Laplace's demon
.

In the removed chapters of Aisha, in the story of the legendary Hero Alus, The First Sage (who was assumed to be Magic Dragon King Laplace) granted Alus the power to properly wield the four treasures Alus borrowed from the other four Sages in order to defeat the Demon Lord.

Laplace is the person who named
Perugius
.

Demon-Dragon God Laplace only needed to eat once every one hundred days and only needed to sleep only once every few years.

Demon-Dragon God Laplace is one of the few beings known to posses a Divine-Jewel although it is unknown whether that Divine-Jewel was destroyed during his fight with the Fighting God.

Demon-Dragon God Laplace's power was comparible to Dragon God Orsted.

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

References