Laplace Factor
 (
ラプラスの因子
,

Rapurasu no Inshi
)
 is a unique trait in capability, or sometimes bodily appearance, a rare percentage of people are born with. It is a result of the Demon God
Laplace
 sending his soul from the past into the present by having it attached itself to multiple bodies in preparation of his revival.

Origin

Approximately
400 years
 prior to the start of the story, when Demon God Laplace was defeated and sealed by the, presently-known,
Three Legendary Demon-God Slayers
 he initiated a reincarnation method by which he would reincarnate in the far future. This method of reincarnation involves sending the soul of oneself into the future and plant itself onto multiple people to search for the perfect vessel. Those said people would have unique traits, though mostly dormant, originally associated with Laplace's internal or physical features. When those people give birth to children, Laplace's traits they inherited will be passed down to their offspring. As a result, slight bodily changes start to appear in children.

The process of bodies adapting to the soul would repeat for numerous generations, and slowly, when Laplace's predicted time of reincarnation gets closer, the dormant traits starts to awaken signaling the body-adaptation is getting nearer to the ideal. By this point in time, the person in possession of the factor would have already noticed their abnormality, by intuition or when exhibited for any person to notice. It must be noted that the traits awaken in different persons possessing the factor.

The reincarnation will occur when an adapted body possessing the factor perfectly matches with the soul. Taking over the body of the soul it was originally supposed to be in and be born while pretending to be it. This was originally a technique of reincarnation perfected by the
first generation Dragon God
 which had been used by many ancient
Dragon Race
 people to reincarnate into the present. Laplace's knowledge of this technique owed to him already having learnt it before he was split from the
Demon-Dragon King
 self; knowledge of this technique was passed to his Demon God self.

Known Characters with a Laplace Factor

Rudeus Greyrat

Sylphiette Greyrat

Sieghart Saladin Greyrat

Characteristics of People with a Laplace Factor

Increased magic potential and capacity (in most cases)

Green hair (some cases)

Can't wear or have trouble wearing
Battle Aura
 (most cases)

Increased strength and endurance (
Sieghart
)

When entering
Perugius
'
Castle
, they emit light particles out of their bodies (all cases)