This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

Lara Greyrat
 is the second child and daughter of
Rudeus Greyrat
 and the first daughter he had with
Roxy M. Greyrat
. She is the older sister of
Lily Greyrat
 and the half sister of
Lucy Greyrat
,
Ars Greyrat
,
Sieghardt Saladin Greyrat
 and
Christina Greyrat
. It was prophesized that she will be an important person in the future and destined to be the savior that the
Doldia Tribe
 were waiting for.

Appearance

Lara has light blue hair and eyes like her mother
Roxy
 that covers most of her forehead except the middle with a single ahoge and her mouth is just like Rudeus. Because of the color of her hair that could be viewed as green that is matches the hair of the Superd Tribe, her mother and
Sylphy
 worry about it since she might get bullied
.

As she reaches adulthood, she has the appearance of a 13-14 year old human girl, resembling Roxy so much that Rudeus may mix up with them when viewed from the back, which makes her tie her hair into a single braid to differentiate from her mother.

Personality

On the outside, Lara seems to be stoic and has a stern personality, but in reality it is actually due to her telepathy which she usually uses for communicating frequently with
Zenith
 and
Leo
.

She is mischievous, independent and likes making pranks to anyone for her amusement even if its
Kalman III
 or Orsted.
 Despite this she is also shown to be caring to her younger siblings especially Seig comforting him when he cries. She gets along with Ars, the two of them often causing mischief.

Background

"As I thought, Roxy's child is special."

-Orsted

Before Rudeus and Roxy were married,
Hitogami
 tried to get rid of Roxy many times, first by telling Rudeus to get a
Demon Eye
 from
Kishirika Kishirisu
, leading him to avoid meeting Roxy in Wind Port
. He then attempted to stop him from going to the
Teleport Labyrinth
 to save Zenith (and Roxy)
 which failed because of Rudeus and Roxy having a strong fate. Hitogami further manipulated Rudeus by leading him into a situation that would end up with Roxy falling ill and die later due to
Magic Stone Disease
 while Roxy is pregnant with Lara, but this was prevented by the intervention of
his future self
.

Hitogami confronted Rudeus in his dream because of this and angrily told him the future that Lara along with Rudeus' descendants would ally with
Orsted
 to kill Hitogami
. A compromise was eventually established that if Rudeus kills Orsted, Hitogami would leave his family alone. However, Orsted defeated Rudeus and made him his subordinate
. On the day of Lara's birth, there was a heavy snowstorm and Lara's shoulder being caught due to her larger size being a child of a
Human
 and Migurd, Lara was born safely with no complication
.

Plot

Volume 20 - Young Man Period - Zanoba Chapter

She cried when Rudeus said that he's going to
Shirone
 to help
Zanoba
 until Roxy said that she's going together with Rudeus.

Mushoku Tensei Novel Volume 20.5 - Intermission Chapter

Eris
 once found her attached to
Leo
 like a backpack in one of her patrols with Leo.

Volume 22 - Young Man Period - Organization Chapter

Lara traveled to the Demon Continent with her parents to visit her
Grand
parents
 in Roxy's hometown. It was there that Rudeus and Roxy discovered that Lara had the power to use Telepathy which is a trait that was skipped in Roxy. Roxy proposed to Rudeus that Lara should live with her grandparents for a while since Roxy felt that she would be an outcast with her special traits. Lara somehow overheard this and later pleaded with her mother to not leave her and spoke.







Jobless Oblige

Sieghart
 mentioned that  she became a researcher at
Ranoa Magic Academy
 after her graduation of Asura Royal Academy, and her research subjects are summoning magic and divination magic.

Redundancy
The Last One to Leave the Nest

In the last chapter, Lara and Leo leave the house, searching a place with high concentration of mana and promising to Sylphy and Roxy that she is going to back with a boy (Rudeus and Eris will be dead when she comes back). Before she parts, Sylphy gives her cuisine recipes, Eris gives her a knife amulet, Roxy gives her her old hat and Rudeus gives her his 『Arrogant Water Dragon King』, she also takes an old robe of Rudeus.

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Power and Abilities

Telepathy

Because she is part
Migurd
 on her mother's side, Lara has telepathic abilities that normal Migurd have. It was discovered that she had this ability when Rudeus and Roxy took her with them to visit her grandparents. Her parents did not know that she held this ability since no one capable of verbal communication are able to use telepathy, and Roxy was the sole person in the Migurd village born without it.

However, it appears that her telepathy is not limited to Migurds, as she often uses it to communicate with
Zenith
,
Leo
 and
Beat
.

Magic

Divination Magic

Summoning Magic

Equipment

『Arrogant Water Dragon King』 (Aqua Heartia)

She received the 『Arrogant Water Dragon King』 from her father as a parting gift before she left her house. Rudeus knows since a long time she wanted this staff.

Trivia

She is the Hero that Leo guards, with a fate strong enough to steal the destiny from the original hero of all of
Orsted
's previous loops.

After an embarrassing incident that happened when Rudeus mistook Lara as Roxy, he never sneaks up to Roxy from behind again.

References