This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

Leroy Greyrat
 is the son of Ars Greyrat and Aisha Greyrat whose relationship was initially opposed by rest of the
Greyrat Family
 but Rudeus eventually accepts them when Aisha became pregnant with Leroy.

Personality

Rudeus describes Leroy to be a rowdy boy like both his parents and inherited his mother Aisha's Intelligence and his father Ars' perverse fondness for large breasts.

Background

"As Ars grew, so did that feeling... But I still tried to restrain myself! After all, we're a decade apart! Not to say that he's the firstborn, thus needs a proper prospect for continuing the Greyrat House legacy! But Ars said he loves me too!"

-Aisha Greyrat

Ever since
Ars Greyrat
 was born,
Aisha Greyrat
 has grown fond of the child. As Ars grew up he also becomes close to Aisha and they eventually fall in love.
Rudeus Greyrat
 later finds out of their relationship and affair that shocks him along with the rest of his family. Despite the strong objections especially by her mother
Lilia Greyrat
, Aisha insists that she loves Ars and will marry him but Rudeus refuses and decides that Ars will attend the
Asura
 Royal Academy that Aisha refuses but eventually agrees to Rudeus' recommendation. The next day, Aisha elopes with Ars leaving the family a letter: "We will live our own lives."

Around a year of searching, Rudeus manages to find Aisha who is already pregnant with Leroy. Aisha was willing to die as long as Leroy would live but Rudeus refuses and after further talking things out with Aisha, they return to the Greyrat House.

Plot

Back at the Greyrat House, Lilia is horrified that Aisha is pregnant and grabs a knife but Rudeus stops her. After settling the matter with the family, the punishment is decided that after Aisha gives birth, she will study at Asura Royal Academy and Ars will continue his study at
Sharia
 while Leroy will be under the care of Lilia and Rudeus' family.

4 years later, Ars graduates and he tells Rudeus that he is ready to be with Aisha and races to Asura Kingdom to marry her who also graduated and is working under
Ariel Anemoi Asura
. Ars, Aisha and Leroy settles down in Sharia and buys a house but often visits the Greyrat House.

Trivia

As he exists now, he is now part of the canon because the story of his background was appeared in
Light Novel Extra Edition Volume 3
 following the deletion in the web novel.

His daughter, Feris Greyrat, is also part of the canon.

References