This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!





The
Princess Ariel Faction
 in the Library Labyrinth



The
Library Labyrinth
 is a castle owned by
Demon
 King
Beethove Tovetha
 where copies of books from all over the
Human World
 are stored.

Geography

The Library Labyrinth is a castle located deep in the Wraith Forest in the Hyleth Region of the
Demon Continent
.

Entry





Rudeus and Eris at the entry room of the Library Labyrinth in the Light Novel



"Good day to you, Demon King. A pleasure to make your acquaintance. I am Rudeus Greyrat. This is an incredible library you have here."

-
Rudeus Greyrat

While the physical entry to the Library Labyrinth is not revealed,
Orsted
 creates a
Magic Circle
 for Rudeus and the
Princess Ariel Faction
 to teleport into to the labyrinth where they will be inside the castle at a room with a stone floor and walls similar to
Dragon Tribe
 Ruins that also houses a Teleportation Circle. The only difference is the Library Labyrinth has a proper door and the room is filled with the smell of ink, parchment and mold even if there no books in the immediate area.

Background

"I am Demon King Beethove Tovetha, of the Nen Tribe. Welcome to my castle, Future Author-in-the-Making."

-Beethove Tovetha

Demon King
Beethove Tovetha
 of the Nen Tribe is described by Orsted to be a bookworm who uses his
All-Seeing Demon Eyes
 to make copies of books all over the
Human World
 that he stores in a castle that eventually is called the Library Labyrinth.

While the exact date when the Library Labyrinth is created by Beethove Tovetha is unknown, it has books accounting the life of
Kaunis Freean Asura
 during the
Laplace Wars
, implying that Beethove Tovetha has been creating books for the Library Labyrinth for 400 years or even earlier.

Population

The Library Labyrinth is the home of Beethove Tovetha where he spends his time recreating books. There is also a bunch of
Monsters
 mostly comprise of an enormous number of knee high bipedal
ants
 who dig through the walls and making shelves to house the created books, smaller
slimes
 who collects the resulting rubble by the ants and reform those in their bodies to more book shelves. Finally
Cthulhu Snails
 who protects the Library Labyrinth from enemies.

Despite being a labyrinth that has monsters that normally attack any intruders like the
Teleportation Labyrinth
, they act as familiars of Beethove Tovetha but they are not aggressive and don't attack intruders to the point that they don't even spare a glance at them and continue with their work when they spot them.

Plot

"The vast majority of literature about Kaunis Freean Asura is grouped together by publication date. It would be difficult to gather everything ever written about him, but you would still find more in there than you would in Asura's national library."

-Orsted

After Rudeus is defeated by Orsted in their
second battle
, Rudeus becomes Orsted's subordinate and is given the mission to make
Ariel Anemoi Asura
 to be the next queen of
Asura Kingdom
. In order to accomplish this, the
Princess Ariel Faction
 needs the backing of
Perugius Dola
 who questions Ariel what is the trait of a true king like his friend
Kaunis Freean Asura
 and Ariel's ancestor.
 Since then, Ariel has been staying at the
Chaos Breaker
 as a guest of Perugius but is struggling to find the answer.

Rudeus informs Ariel that they can learn more about Kaunis in the Library Labyrinth as suggsted by Orsted to which Ariel immediately accepts and with the use of Orsted's Teleportation Circle the Princess Ariel Faction enters the Libary Labyrinth

Initially, they were on guard but the monsters on the Library does not attack and simply ignores them when they see Ariel's group so they begin to search for information about Kaunis. Days later, the monsters nor Beethove Tovetha has shown no hostilities towards the Princess Ariel Faction so Rudeus tries to communicate with Beethove Tovetha and he is successfully able to do so by communicating with writing. After showing Beethove Tovetha the book provided by Orsted, he gives Rudeus the journal of
Derrick Redbat
 and he shows it to Princess Ariel.

References