Chapter 1: The Holy Country of Millis

The group arrives at the beautiful city of Millishion, and just as soon as they enter the city Geese says his goodbyes and leaves the group. After arriving at the inn Rudeus decides tomorow will be a free day for each person to do whatever they want, so that he would have enough time to finally write a letter back to Paul in the Fittoa region since he still doesn't know the extend to which the Displacement Incident has affected people. Eris decides that she'll go and hunt some goblins and Ruijerd says he's going to say hello to an acquaintance of his.

While heading back to the inn after buying some ink and paper, Rudeus see a group of what look to be kidnappers carrying a child in a burlap sack and running very quickly. Due to Dead End's motto to never abandon a child in peril, he decides to tail the group and rescue the child. After realizing that he had snuck his way into a crate of underwear, he revealed his location and alerted the kidnappers inside the building that he was there. He quickly took out four of them with weakened Stone Cannons to knock them out, but the group kept calling in reinforcements preventing him from being able to escape. Eventually a women in bikini armor and a sword began attacking Rudeus, with her large breasts distracting him and preventing him from doing anything more than dodging her attacks, giving enough time for the groups boss to come in.

Rudeus felt that the groups boss looked extremely nostalgic, but he couldn't place why. The boss was obviously extremely drunk while fighting against Rudeus, but was also skilled enough for Rudeus to give the fight everything he had just to keep up. Soon enough, the man even landed a slash cutting off the underwear Rudeus put on his head to hide his face, but this caused the man to stop fighting instantly, recognizing Rudeus, causing Rudeus to recognize that this man was his father, Paul.

Chapter 2: Paul's Story

We see the Displacement Incident from Paul's point of view. At the time of the incident he happened to be holding Norn, so both of them teleported together to the southern region of Asura. Thanks to Paul's adventuring habits he had a Asuran gold coin and his adventurers card tucked into the sheath of his sword, which he always kept on him. He quickly sped back to the Fittoa Region, taking two months to get back, and saw that everything had vanished once he arrived. Thanks to the butler under Philip, Alphonse, a refugee camp was already under construction, and with Paul's help it was finished within a month, recuing people across the country in the process. Afterwards, Paul headed to the other of the two largest countries in the world Millis, to set up base there and rescue even more people, while also searching for Rudeus, Zenith, and the rest of his family.

In the first six months Paul and the other volunteers had rescued hundreds of people affected by the incident, some had even been sold off as slaves and so needed to be bought back, or stolen when they couldn't be bought. Whatever needed to be done, Paul would do it to get them back. The next six months weren't nearly as good as the first. Most of the news was Fittoa residents who had been found dead, and fewer and fewer people were being rescued. The families of those found dead almost all blamed Paul for not finding them fast enough. And after another six months Paul had resorted to drinking to escape the thoughts of what had happened to his own family, since he still had no word on them.

Paul was also drunk on this very day, when suddenly his squad members told him that one of their warehouses was being attacked by a young magician.

Chapter 3: Family Squabble

Rudeus and Paul walk over to a nearby bar to talk after the fight. As Rudeus tells Paul what he's been doing the past year and a half Paul angrily yells at him to stop talking and informs him that while he was on his little adventure with a cute young miss and invincible bodyguard, Paul was searching for the thousands of displacement people including his own family. During their conversation tensions were high causing them to get into another fight which Rudeus easily won thanks to his demon eye and since had been Paul drinking even more. However Zorn stepped in between them to stop it. Rudeus was extremely shocked and angry at himself for not even thinking about how others could have been affected by the incident as well, causing him to leave the bar and go back to the inn, with him and Paul not having resolved anything, and Paul looking with disgust at Rudeus.

After a while Ruijerd and Eris arrived back at the inn ready to share the events of their happy day with Rudeus, but notice that Rudeus was extremely depressed. After some back and forth about what happened Rudeus tells the story of how he ran into Paul for the first time in a year and a half, and Eris says that she'll beat him up for what he did. Ruijerd tells Eris to not get involved in family squabbles, and after some hesitation comforts Rudeus to great effect, hugging him and helping him recover emotionally.

Chapter 4: Reunited

We get a look at Paul's perspective of his fight with Rudeus, and how he got so angry since Rudeus described his adventure as a walk in the park without any major issues or dangers. After explaining as much to Geese, who had found Paul and was trying to see what happened, Geese told him that he expected way too much of his 11 year old son who had never gone on an adventure before and was probably skipping all the dangerous parts of the story to prevent Paul from worrying as much about him. After a long conversation about how Paul was too quick to judge, he vows to come back tomorrow and fix things with Rudeus.

The next morning the two meet up in the same bar, with Ruijerd taking the irate Eris outside with him to allow the two to converse privately. Ruijerd's only words to Paul were "You have every right to say your piece. But the only reason that you
can
 is that you son is still alive". Paul and Rudeus both apologize to each other and begin sharing information about the state of the Fittoa region and what had gone on since the incident. Eventually they both felt the conversation was going nowhere and was extremely awkward, but the bartender came over to the pair, who were the only two inside the place now, and told Rudeus to at least look Paul in the eyes even though he had no idea what the situation was.

After doing so Rudeus saw the look of an extremely anxious and worried man who was on the brink of tears. This made Rudeus realize how Paul was feeling, similar feelings to how he had felt in his previous life, and caused him to propose to his father to pretend yesterday never happened. Paul reluctantly agreed, and the Rudeus runs into Paul's arms and says "Father! I've missed you so much!", and after a moments hesitation Paul responds and they both start sobbing. For a while they both stayed there like that, having fully made up, and reuniting for the first time in five years.

Chapter 5: Objectives Confirmed

Now that the father son duo were together again and had gotten past the awkward stage, they were freely joking around and discussing the events that had gone on in each others lives for the past 5 years, including an update on
Sylphie
 who was able to use even healing magic without an incantation, something Rudeus was still unable to do. Unfortunately she was still missing so her whereabouts were unknown.

Afterwards, Rudeus, Ruijerd, and Eris head back to their inn to discuss their plan moving forward, after having gained a lot of information from Paul, as well as a hefty sum of money intended for the safe travel of any Boreas household members, inclduing Eris. Rudeus decides to continue his journey to return Eris back to her hometown, even knowing that everything there has completely disappeared. And thanks to Ruijerd's acquaintance likely being a man of nobility, they were even able to obtain a letter of introduction to help avoid paying the astronomical sum of 100 king's coins for a superd to cross to the central continent. The group decide to spend a week in Millishion before heading off.

Chapter 6: One Week in Millishion

The next day, Rudeus goes to see Paul at the Fittoa Search and Rescue Squad's headquarters, but he's extremely busy after having spent the last month getting drunk every day, so Rudeus schedules a dinner with him four days later. During those four days Rudeus and the crew take on a B rank mission, to slay a Leaf Tiger, which was killed with one slash by Eris due to the group being used to the much fiercer monsters on the Demon Continent. Four days later Rudeus, who reluctantly allows Eris to join, both meet with Paul and Norn at the restaurant.

Eris was still mad at Paul for how he reacted to seeing his son, and Norn was still mad at Rudeus for punching her dad when in her opinion he hadn't done anything wrong. So the mood was tense for a while, but gradually evened out throughout the night, although Eris was still a bit hostile, and Norn still wouldn't look Rudeus in the eyes. And a couple days later a similar scene was reenacted as Rudeus set off towards the west end of the Millis Continent, while Paul continued working to ensure the Fittoa residents who were still in the Millis Continent would obtain safe passage back to their homeland.

Interlude: Eris The Goblin Slayer

Cliff Grimoire was an orphan in Millishion adopted by Harry Grimoire, a very high ranking member of the Millis Church. Thanks to his innate talents and the funding of his adoptive father he was able to obtain advanced rank healing, detoxification, divine strike, and fire magic, and intermediate rank in the other three offensive magic disciplines. Due to his immense talents and longing to be an adventurer, he snuck away from his home and registered. However he did not realize that since he was a newbie rank F adventurer no party was willing to accept him.

Today was Dead End's off day, where Eris went to go hunt goblins, and she just happened to run into Cliff looking down on other adventurers for not accepting him, and after intervening he started following her and tried to show off his power in front of her. Unfortunately for him, Eris was using Rudeus as her standard, and very few people in the entire world could compare to him in terms of magic capabilities.

Eventually, the duo ended up deep in the forest where they found the Blessed Child, an important woman in one faction of the Millis Church, being attacked by assassins from the other prominent faction. Eris decides to intervene immediately, slicing two of the men in half, as the other encircled her. Thanks to the single remaining knight protected the Blessed Child who helped Eris, she was able to break out of the encirclement and eliminate another of the assassins, while the last one got away. The knight introduced herself as
Therese Latria
, offering her assistance to Eris if she ever needed it, and quickly left with the Blessed Child.

It turned out that Cliff was actually the true grandson of the current pope of Millishion, who hid Cliff in an attempt to keep him safe during the current power struggle going on within the church, and the Blessed Child who Eris had just saved was a member of the opposing faction of the Pope. With this development not going the Pope's way, he decided to send Cliff away to study in
a foreign land
.

Chapter 7: To the Central Continent

After two months on the road, the group reached West Port, and their first stop was the customs office to try and secure passage to the Central Continent. After handing over the letter Ruijerd received, the duke in charge of the office met with the group, and we learn that Ruijerd's acquaintance was actually Galgard Nash Vennick, Commander of the Missionary Knights, one of the three holy military orders of the Millis Church. The duke in charge of the office detested demons however, and refused to let Ruijerd board the ship by claiming the letter to be a forgery.

After some moments of discussion and Rudeus trying to use Eris' Boreas Greyrat name, a female Temple Knight entered the office, and she just so happened to be the woman Eris saved from assassins a couple days prior, as well as Zenith's sister, Therese Latria. She used her authority to take the three under her protection, completely ignoring Duke Bakshiel. Thanks to that the group was finally able to obtains safe passage to the Central Continent, and Therese even provided Eris with medicine to help her seasickness.

Interlude: Roxy's Homecoming

At the same time as Rudeus set sail towards the Central Continent, Roxy returned to her hometown on the Demon Continent for the first time in many years. Due to her inability to understand the telepathy that every other member of her race was able to do, she felt very ostracized from her village. However after seeing her mother cry she spent three days with her parents, and was even able to relax around them towards the end. After leaving she went to Rikarisu, and after arrived confirmed her suspicions that Rudeus was the "Kennel Master" of Dead End that she had been hearing so much about on her journey, realizing they had crossed paths without even knowing it right when she arrived on the Demon Continent. Her, Talhand, and Elinalise decided to finish searching the northwest region of the continent for any displaced Fittoa residents however.

Extra Chapter I: Dragon Meat, Nanahoshi Style

The trio arrived at Eastport in the Dragon King Realm, and decide to buy some food at a restaurant that was emitting a great smell, one that Rudeus even found to be nostalgic. The restaurant was a bit rundown and shabby, and only had two items on the menu, but Rudeus couldn't resist his curiosity, and they all ordered Dragon Meat, Nanahoshi Style. Once the food was delivered, to Rudeus' shock it was a three piece meal very similar to a typical Japanese meal, which gave him high hopes for an excellent meal, but after tasting it he flipped out on the chef and had to be dragged out by Eris and Ruijerd since it was so below his standards.

Unknown to Rudeus however, the chef was Randolph Marianne, the Dead God, ranked fifth among the Seven Great Powers. And after his scathing review, Randolph decided to close shop and finally accept the offer of the High General of the King Dragon Realm, Shagall Gargantis, to join him.

Extra Chapter II: The Death of Ariel

A rumor started speeding around the capital of Asura that Ariel had died while traveling to the Ranoa University of Magic. In order to verify these claims an information dealer started retracing her steps and interviewed several men. The first was a man who worked at the last border checkpoint before leaving Asura, who had indeed seen Ariel and went against his order to keep her in town for a couple days to stall her and let her through immediately. It turns out that a few days prior some suspicious looking men in black clothing had crossed the border a few days prior, likely lying in wait for Ariel and her guards in the forest beyond the border.

The second man saw the fight between Ariel's guards and the assassins, and saw "Silent Fitz", Fitz's nickname, using beginner tier spells at perfect timings to kill the assassins and help the other guards who were struggling against them. However as the fight dragged on it was seven assassins versus Fitz and three other guards, and when all the assassins mobilized towards Ariel and a group of three maids after a fake-out that they were going towards Fitz, one managed to sneak through and decapitate one of the group of four right before him and the rest of the assassins were all killed. The eyewitness said it was Ariel, however the royal family has magical implements that allow for very good disguises, and the information broker later heard from another soldier stationed at the border that he saw Ariel no doubt about it leaving the forest after the fight.

This was the tale of how Ariel successfully escaped from the Kingdom of Asura and enrolled at the Ronoa Magic Academy.