Information

Summary

Chapter 1: The Diary (Part 1)

Rudeus reads the diary from his future self, which described the following events. Roxy became infected with Magic Stone disease, which was identified by Cliff and his Eye of Identification. This can only be healed with God rank detoxification. So, Cliff, Zanoba and Rudeus go to the Holy Kingdom of Milis using teleport magic circles to get the book with God Class Detoxification chants. Unfortunately, this book is within a cathedral that cannot be entered unless you are archbishop level. They decide to steal the book but are caught. Cliff dies during the battle and the magic teleporting circle that they used is destroyed. They also become wanted men in the Milis region. By the time Rudeus and Zanoba arrive home, Roxy was already half crystalized and had died. Elinalise is informed of Cliff's death, and leaves town while heavily pregnant. Rudeus then becomes depressed due to Roxy's death and dependent on alcohol. He begins neglecting Sylphy. Sylphy then leaves with Ariel who has returned to the Kingdom of Asura. Rudeus then decides to chase after Sylphy by following her to Asura. During his travels, he frequently runs into Eris. She is unable to properly express her feeling towards Rudeus and so just hits him. Rudeus discovers that Ariel has returned to Asura in order to gather an army to perform a coup d'etat. This fails however, and so Ariel, Sylphy, and Luke all die.

Chapter 2: The Diary (Part 2)

Rudeus continues to read the diary from his future self, which described the following events. After Sylphy's death, Rudeus spent more time going to brothels. He also frequently ran into Eris, who also was living in Sharia. Rudeus continues to have mixed feelings about Eris. The Milis Church put a bounty on the heads of Rudeus and Zanoba due to their exploits from stealing the God Class detoxification chant book. Zanoba completes his automaton research. He is able to create essentially a robot that looks like Sylphy and acts like her as well. Rudeus ends up destroying this robot. Zanoba ultimately mass produces his robots. Rudeus develops a hatred for Hitogami. He vows to get stronger in order to kill Hitogami. Throughout this process, he loses touch with his family; only Aisha stays in touch. To augment his physical strength, he and Zanoba develop fully body armour similar to his prosthetic hand, which Rudeus can augment with magic to improve his physical strength.

Future Rudeus continues to work on his magic over the years, developing gravity magic, electricity magic, voice magic. However, he becomes a bad person; he would frequently get into arguments, do whatever he wanted, and occasionally raped women. Rudeus continued to run into Eris, and so he begins to falsely suspect that she is affiliated with Hitogami. Rudeus continues to try to gather more information about Hitogami by questioning beings who are long-lived. He ends up trying to speak to Atofe, but ends up fighting her and her imperial guard, including Moore. During the battle, he becomes careless and is saved by Eris, but then she is killed as a result. After Eris' death, Ghyslaine explains to Rudeus that Eris has loved him all this time and had followed him around for this reason. Ghylaine blames Rudeus for Eris' death.

Years pass, and Zanoba dies, killed by the Order of the Temple. Julie, Ginger, and Aisha are killed as well. With this, Rudeus no longer has any living loved ones. There was no mention in the diary of the fate of Lucy, Norn or Lilia. Through his travels, Rudeus discovers the nature of this world, which is that it shaped like a cube, with six sides: Dragon world, Human world, Demon world, Beast world, Ocean world, Sky world. The interior of the die is the Void World, where Hitogami resides. Rudeus learns that in order to travel to the Void World, one must collect the 5 ancient Dragon Race treasures. However, collecting all 5 treasures turns out to be impossible within his lifespan. Rudeus then learns how to travel to the past and he decides to go to the past to correct his mistakes. The diary then ends here.

Chapter 3: Resolve

After finishing reading his future self's diary, Rudeus has a discussion with Sylphy and Roxy. He vaguely reveals that someone has shown him the future in which a bad person would cause terrible things to happen to his family. Rudeus then broaches the subject of adding Eris to their polygamous relationship. Sylphy and Roxy initially object, since they know that Eris broke Rudeus' heart, which resulted in his erectile dysfunction. Rudeus reassures them that he now knows that this was actually a misunderstanding. Both Sylphy and Roxy tentatively agree to accepting Eris, depending on how well Rudeus' and Eris' are able to reconcile in their meeting together.

Rudeus then falls asleep, and he sees Hitogami in the white void. Hitogami is initially extremely frustrated at the fact that future Rudeus has disrupted Hitogami's plans to kill Rudeus' family. Hitogami reports that Orsted is trying to kill Hitogami, but cannot do so alone. However, Rudeus and his descendants are not affected by Orsted's curse, which cause all beings to hate Orsted. This means that Rudeus' descendants may end up assisting Orsted and kill Hitogami, which would destroy the world. Furthermore, Rudeus and his descendants have 'strong fate', which means that Hitogami has difficulty with changing their fate. So, because Rudeus and his descendants have strong fate and may end up helping Orsted to kill Hitogami, Hitogami tries to kill Rudeus' descendants to prevent his own ultimate death. Rudeus tells Hitogami that he will do anything for him if he is able to save his family. Hitogami therefore suggests that if Rudeus wants to save his family, he needs to kill Orsted.

Rudeus then wakes up. He vows to kill Orsted to save his family from Hitogami.

Chapter 4: Nanahoshi's Hypothesis

Rudeus consults with Nanahoshi, in accordance with his future self's instructions. He tells her everything about his future self's encounter, the diary, and his dream with Hitogami. After spending the day reviewing the diary and thinking, Nanahoshi discusses her hypotheses with Rudeus, which is as follows. Rudeus and Nanahoshi were transported into this world by someone whose goal is to kill Hitogami. Nanahoshi was transported so that she may create some currently unknown method to kill Hitogami, while Rudeus was transported so that his descendants and Orsted could kill Hitogami with that method.

Nanahoshi then suggests to Rudeus that he team up with Orsted instead. Rudeus refuses, since Hitogami is unreachable, while Orsted is within this world. He reasons that for the purpose of protecting his family from Hitogami, it would be easier to kill Orsted as commanded by Hitogami, than to kill Hitogami himself. Rudeus then begs Nanahoshi to help him kill Orsted. She is reluctant, as Orsted has saved her in the past, but ultimately agrees to help.

Chapter 5: A Letter from Afar

Eris gets ready to leave the Holy Land of the Sword to meet up with Rudeus in Ranoa, who she hasn't been in contact for many years. Just prior to departing, she receives a letter from Rudeus. The letter describes how Rudeus initially thought Eris had rejected him, but he now knows this was a misunderstanding and that she actually loves him. Rudeus informs Eris in this letter that he currently has two wives, but is willing to accept Eris has his third wife. Eris' two friends argue over whether Rudeus is an asshole or not. Rudeus' letter also included a post script, which stated that he planned to challenge Orsted to battle, with the caveat that he may not survive. Eris becomes excited at this, and she and Ghyslaine head off toward Rudeus.

Chapter 6: Preparations

Rudeus works on his preparations to kills Orsted. He works on creating full body magic armour that his future self also used, with the help of Zanoba and Cliff. He decides that he needs to find a suitable partner to fight Orsted; Badigadi was missing, Ruijerd wasn't present, and Perugius refused. He rules out Zanoba, Cliff and Elinalise since they are his friends. He considers begging Eris to help fight, if she were to arrive in time. He puts the subject of finding a partner on hold for now. Rudeus also considers various battle tactics to take down Orsted, including using traps and sneak attacks.

During these preparations, Hitogami then reappears to Rudeus in his dreams. Hitogami is quite pleased with Rudeus' decision to try to kill Orsted, but warns that he will wipe out Rudeus' family if he fails. Hitogami offers advice on building the magic armour and suggests that Rudeus use magic tools in his fight. Hitogami again confirms that he cannot see Orsted's future but can see his own, and so he sees that in the future he is killed by Orsted and Rudeus' descendants. Rudeus gets Hitogami to promise that if he kills Orsted, that Hitogami will leave Rudeus and his family alone.

A month passes, and the magic armour construction is making good progress. It stands 3 meters tall, which is much larger than the armour that future Rudeus created for himself. By making the armour bigger, the engineering was easier and it was more robust. Rudeus also goes shopping with Roxy to buy magic tools. He comes up with an idea to multiple of the same tool together so that he can fire off his stone cannons in rapid succession like a gatling gun. They enlist the help of a craftsman to help make this tool. Rudeus then consults with Nanahoshi. They come up with the idea of using poison. They also come up with a plan to lure Orsted. Using Ariel's connections, Rudeus buys the poison that he plans to use against Orsted. Rudeus chooses his planned battleground against Orsted and practices using traps. He also learns close quarters combat from Elinalise.

Chapter 7: Readying for Battle

Another month passes, and the magic armour is complete. It is 3 meters tall, and he wears it like a mecha suit. It has a gatling cannon installed on one hand that fires stone cannons. The other hand has a magic absorbing stone. The armour is also equipped with a shield with Paul's Tantou sword attached, which can ignore armour. Elinalise reveals that she is pregnant with Cliff's child. Cliff confirms this for himself with his Identification eye. Rudeus tests out the magic armour by sparring with Sylphy and Zanoba. Sylphy's magic and Zanoba's punches are ineffective against the armour. Rudeus is quite pleased with the armour.

Back at home, Roxy announces to the family that she is pregnant. The whole family congratulates her. Rudeus notes that this was a stark contrast to the atmosphere when Lilia revealed her pregnancy due to Paul's infidelity, many years ago. Aisha reveals she has successfully cultivated rice in their garden. Rudeus is excited at the idea of being able to eat rice regularly again. The family then enjoys their dinner in celebration.

After dinner, Rudeus informs his family that he will be fighting a strong opponent, without specifically naming Orsted, and that his preparations for the past few months have been leading to this. He warns them that there's a chance he may not survive. Later that evening, Rudeus explains the whole situation to Roxy and Sylphy. He explains that he plans to fight Orsted, about the revelations from Hitogami, and that if he fails to kill Orsted, his family will be in danger. Sylphy and Roxy promise to protect their family and accept the fact that Rudeus will be fighting Orsted, possibly never to return.

Chapter 8: Quagmire vs. Dragon God

Orsted is lured into a deserted village, presumably by Nanahoshi. He is pricked by a poisoned handle and triggers a trap inside a building. Rudeus then follows up with a barrage of long range magic attacks, including a massive explosion like a nuclear bomb. Despite all this, Orsted takes minimal damage. Orsted then closes the distance between himself and Rudeus. Rudeus is able to do some damage to Orsted with his sword, whose force increases exponentially proportional to the enemy's defense. Orsted is then able to cut off both of the armour's arms off, including Rudeus' right arm. Orsted continues to damage Rudeus and his armour. Rudeus then ejects himself from the magic armour and the armour is destroyed. Outside of the armour, Rudeus is quickly defeated and seriously injured. Before killing Rudeus, Orsted questions Rudeus regarding why he came after him. Rudeus explains that Hitogami told Rudeus that his descendants would help Orsted kill Hitogami, which would destroy the world. Rudeus further explains that if he kills Orsted, Hitogami will spare Rudeus' family. Rudeus then crawls to Orsted's legs and begs that he give up on killing Hitogami. Orsted refuses and so Rudeus bites Orsted's leg, with the intention of launching a magical suicide attack, but Orsted uses Disturb magic and kicks him away. Before Orsted can kill and finish off Rudeus, Eris suddenly appears.

Chapter 9: Berserker Sword King vs. Dragon God

A few days prior to Orsted and Rudeus' battle, Eris and Ghyslaine arrived in Sharia city. They find Rudeus' home and meet his family. Eris then finds out that Rudeus has headed off on his own to kill Orsted.

After Orsted and Rudeus' battle had commenced, Eris and Ghyslaine are able to locate them by the sounds of battle and seeing a large explosion. Eris finds Rudeus just as he is on the verge of death. Eris faces Orsted while she leaves Ghyslaine to tend to Rudeus. Eris notes that Rudeus has been able to inflict a significant amount of damage to Orsted. Despite this, looking at Orsted, Eris recognizes that she is unable to defeat him alone. Orsted comments in surprise that Eris is risking her life for someone other than Luke, who was apparently fated to be her husband. Eris responds that she doesn't know of anyone with that name.

Eris thinks back to her last meeting with the Sword God, where he offered her one of three swords before she departed. She chose the Phoenix Elegant Dragon Sword, which has the ability to negate one's opponent's Battle Aura defense, or at least weaken it. The Sword God also gives a piece of advice for her confrontation with Orsted, which was to never move first, because of his strong counterattack, due to his proficiency in Water God sword style.

As Orsted and Eris face off, Orsted is surprised at the fact that Eris doesn't approach to attack. He comments that the Eris in front of him is different than the Eris he knows. Eris and Orsted then fight, with Eris remembering other bits of advice that the Sword God Gull Farion gave her, regarding fighting Orsted. Eris was able to cut off Orsted's hand, but he quickly reattaches it and heals the rest of his injuries from his battle with Rudeus. Eris then transitions from Sword God style to North God style and throws a secondary sword at Orsted, which is easily repelled.

At this point, Rudeus stands up, his injuries healed, but drained and near death. Roxy and Sylphy have arrived to support him. Eris and Sylphy then plan to fight Orsted, while having Rudeus escape with Roxy and Ghyslaine. Seeing this, Orsted then declares that he cannot allow Rudeus to live while he is allied with Hitogami. However, he does note that Rudeus can potentially be useful, with his magic armor, his immense magical power, and immunity to Orsted's curse (the curse which cause all living beings to fear Orsted). Therefore, Orsted offers Rudeus to betray Hitogami and join him. Orsted states that with his power, he should be able to protect Rudeus and his family from Hitogami, but is not able to give any absolute promises. Rudeus agrees to join Orsted to be his subordinate.

Chapter 10: Eris Greyrat (Part 1)

After his battle with Orsted, life returns to normal. Orsted heals Rudeus as promised. Both his missing upper limbs are regrown. Rudeus is also given a magic bracelet, which possibly prevents him from being spied on by Hitogami. Orsted also gives instructs Rudeus to contact him again once his magic has replenished. Rudeus reflects that he doesn't regret betraying Hitogami and in fact feels that Orsted is much more trustworthy. After returning, Rudeus then informed all those who helped him against Orsted that he lost and in fact has now joined him.

Eris has now started living with Rudeus and his family. Rudeus finally hears via Sylphy that Eris has been single-mindedly training for the sole purpose of fighting Orsted along with Rudeus. Rudeus discovers that from Eris perspective, he has betrayed her by marrying other women while she has been training. However, despite this, Roxy informs Rudeus that Eris is actually expecting him to propose to her, to be his third wife. Rudeus sees Eris teach swordplay to Norn. He notes how she has grown as person, as she is now able to logically explain concepts to a beginner, compared to her past self who would only learn things by instinct. Eris and Rudeus then talk. They apologize to each other for breaking the other's heart. Rudeus admits that he does love his current wives Sylphy and Roxy more than Eris. Eris states that she still loves Rudeus. As Rudeus did not explicitly state that he loves her back, she then challenges him to a duel She declares that he must love her as well if she wins, and that if he wins, she will leave.

Chapter 11: Eris Greyrat (Part 2)

Eris and Rudeus face each other, preparing to duel, outside of Sharia city. Ghyslaine acts as their judge. The fight commences but neither side moves to attack. Rudeus announces that he doesn't want to fight if it means that Eris will leave and declares that he loves her as well. Eris walks up to Rudeus and questions if he will still love her, despite her shortcomings compared to Roxy and Sylphy. Rudeus reassures her that he still loves her regardless. They then share an embrace. Rudeus gives a marriage proposal to Eris, and she accepts.

Back at home, during dinner, Rudeus announces that Eris will be his wife. Roxy and Sylphy accept Eris into their family. Aisha and Norn aren't happy with Rudeus for taking on a third wife, but ultimately accept Eris as well. Ghyslaine announces that now she has left Eris in Rudeus' care, her mission is done. She plans to go back to the Asura Empire to enact revenge on those who killed Sauros Greyrat, Eris' grandfather and her former master. Rudeus warns Ghyslaine that Water God and North Emperor are hired by Asura Empire, and Ghyslaine acknowledges she would not be able to defeat them alone. Rudeus suggests that Ghyslaine consider allying herself with Princess Ariel. She agrees to speak with Ariel.

Rudeus goes back to his bedroom, and finds Eris inside. Eris is very sexually assertive, and they have sex. The next morning, Rudeus receives a letter from Orsted.

Chapter 12: The Summons

In Orsted's letter, he asks Rudeus to meet him in a hut outside Sharia city's suburb, and tells him to come alone. Rudeus is nervous as he wants to make a good first impression with his new boss. Rudeus meets Orsted in the hut and it turns out that unbeknownst to Rudeus, Eris has also followed Rudeus there. Eris continues to distrust Orsted and warns him not to harm Rudeus. Orsted states that he will fulfill his promise right now, to protect Rudeus' family. They plan to summon a guardian magical beast which possesses strong fate to protect Rudeus' family. Orsted reasons that this will provide adequate protection as Hitogami cannot manipulate the fate of inhuman beings and cannot manipulate a large number of people at once. However, Orsted warns that since they cannot predict or monitor Hitogami's actions, they should also frequently check in on his family.

Orsted sees that Rudeus has several questions for him and gives him permission to ask them. Rudeus asks to know about Orsted himself. They first review Orsted's curse, which is that Orsted is feared and distrusted by all living creatures, with certain exceptions such as Nanahoshi and Rudeus. Rudeus reveals that this may be because he is from a different world, like Nanahoshi. Other exceptions to this curse are those from the ancient dragon-tribe. Next, Rudeus learns that Orsted's ability to be invisible from Hitogami's view, is actually not a curse. It is actually a technique developed by the first generation Dragon God for fighting Hitogami, which allows him to see fate and deviate from the path pre-destined by fate. The downside of this technique, however. is that it causes your magic regeneration to be 1000 times slower. Therefore, Orsted cannot freely use magic and cannot fight to his fullest ability. He reveals that he had actually used up a considerable amount of magic power in his fight against Rudeus, and so cannot fight seriously for a while. Therefore, Orsted is relying on Rudeus to act on his behalf. Rudeus then asks why Orsted is fighting Hitogami. Orsted reveals that his father, the first generation Dragon God, was killed by Hitogami. Since then, the ancient dragon-tribe's greatest wish, and the sole reason for existence of subsequent Dragon Gods is to defeat Hitogami. Orsted reveals that he is the 100th generation of of Dragon God, and that he was sent from the past to the present, by his father, using a method of reincarnation.

Chapter 13: Explanations

Orsted reveals that he has been alive for the past 2000 years. Rudeus thinks to himself that Orsted's grudge against Hitogami is too strong to be solely fueled by revenge for his father. He asks Orsted to clarify the reason for his grudge, but Orsted gives a vague answer. Nevertheless, Rudeus decides to trust Orsted.

Rudeus then asks about the Laplace factor. Rudeus reviews what he knows about Laplace. He was responsible for a war 400 years ago. He had a lot of magic power but unable to use Battle Aura. He was ultimately sealed by Perugius and two others, but will soon revive. He caused the downfall of the Superd tribe. Orsted reveals that Laplace's method of reviving is the same as the method of reincarnation used by the dragon-tribe. Laplace was previously a Demon Dragon King, who was one of the the 5 first generation Dragon Warriors. Laplace fought against the first generation Dragon God, and perhaps realized that Hitogami had manipulated, and so became the Dragon God's subordinate once again. The first generation Dragon God died, while Laplace survived. He escaped the collapsing Dragon World and drifted to this world. He became the second generation Dragon God and his goal was to defeat Hitogami. Laplace started the Human-Demon race war and fought the Fighting God, who was Hitogami's apostle. As a result of the battle, Laplace's lost his memory and his soul was split into two halves, into the Demon God, and the Technique God. Demon God Laplace lost the power of dragons but retained his magic knowledge and magic power. He also hated the human race and so rallied the demon race to exterminate humans. Technique God Laplace lost the power of magic but retained his knowledge of techniques. He created the Seven Great Major Power ranking. His goal was to overthrow Hitogami.

Orsted explains that the first generation Dragon God invented the method of reincarnation, where you send one's soul into the future, taking over another being's body and ultimately reviving. However, to reduce the chance of the other being's body rejecting one's soul, the Dragon God implanted his factor into multiple people. This factor is passed onto their descendants and modifies their bodies slightly. Orsted explains that many dragon-tribe members have used this method of reincarnation, including Perugius. Demon God Laplace, prior to being sealed by Perugius, distributed his factor and sent his soul into the future for the purpose of reincarnating himself. Currently, people with Laplace's characteristics and possessing the Laplace factor are beginning to appear, characteristics such as an aptitude towards magic, having a large amount of magic power, green hair, and having demon eyes at birth. Sylphy and Rudeus are examples of such people, although Orsted reassures Rudeus that he and Sylphy are not Laplace himself. Orsted further reassures Rudeus that while Rudeus did reincarnate, he likely reincarnated in the body of a baby who was destined to be stillborn, and therefore did not displace someone else's life.

Rudeus next asks Orsted about the mana calamity. Orsted however is unable to give any further information. Rudeus then shares with Orsted the diary from his future self. Rudeus then clarifies the terms of his working relationship under Orsted. Orsted reassures Rudeus that he will receive breaks to see his family, to Rudeus' relief. Next, Rudeus asks about receiving money to support his family, to which Orsted gives him a valuable dagger and a bag of gems, which can be sold for considerable sums of money. Orsted says he will read the future diary and they agree to meet again the next day.

Extra Chapter: A Wild Blade Finds Its Sheath

Eris awakens in one of Rudeus' rooms and remembers how she become his third wife. She dreamed of fighting Orsted for many years, imaging various outcomes, but never expected Rudeus to join Orsted. Fighting Orsted was one of only two objective of her life. All that remains now is for her to spend her life with Rudeus.

Looking at herself in the bathroom, she compares herself with Sylphi and Roxy. She feels she doesn't measure up, and her self-confidence is low. She leaves the bathroom and finds Aisha, Lilia and Sylphiette preparing food. She tries to help, but because of her high cutting ability with blades, she accidentally cuts the pumpkin and the cutting table.

After finding that housework isn't her forte, she decides to work and obtain money. She goes with Roxy to find a job at the magic university. Roxy suggests that a gatekeeper role at the university may be a good fit for her due to the job's simplicity. Roxy leaves Eris in front of the gate as a test. Eris then sees a suspicious man try to enter, and she tries to stop him. The man tries to show proof that he works there. Suddenly a gust of wind, blows at his hair. When the man tries to hold his wig down, Eris prevents him from doing so. Therefore, his wig blows away. It turns out that this man was the principal Georg, and feeling both anger and shame, Eris was fired.

Eris is returns to the house feeling depressed and useless, as she can neither do housework nor work a job. When Eris arrives home, she finds Norn talking with a student from the aristocratic class, who demands that Norn become his fiance, and therefore allow him to form a connection with Rudeus and Ariel. Seeing this student bothering Norn, Eris arrives and cut his belt, threatening to cut him the next time. The student then runs away.

Roxy and Sylphi arrive home and thank Eris. After discussing the events of that day, Sylphi reassures Eris that she doesn't need to worry about feeling useless, because there are things that only Eris can do, such as protect Rudeus. Eris now begins to understand that everyone has their own talents and flaws, and that she isn't useless after all.

As Eris leaves, she meets the gaze of Zenith. Eris thanks her. In her mind she felt that Zenith answered saying "say that to Rudeus". Eris now feels more happy as a wife.