Information

Summary

Chapter 1: Plans for the Future and Cliff's Concerns

Rudeus reviews his discussion with Orsted where they came up with 3 courses of action. The first is to use the Rude Mercenary Company for intelligence gathering. The second is to make connections with influential people with political power and warn them of the war that will occur in 80 years. Examples include Ariel, the next queen of Asura Kingdom and Cliff, the grandson of the Pope of the Milis religious order. The third is to gather warriors who will help Orsted to fight Laplace in his place. They plan to gather those whose fate is already to fight Laplace and who won't easily become Hitogami's disciple, such as Ogre God, Dwarf God, disciples of Water God Style and Sword God Style, North God Karuman III, Death God Randolph, and Ruijerd. Rudeus considers the fact that Hitogami will likely try to influence people within Rudeus's organization and disrupt their plans. Rudeus reasons that since Hitogami is limited only 3 disciples, the plan is to have a large enough organization that the effect of 1 or 2 betrayals doesn't cause significant disruption to their plans. Rudeus brings up with Orsted the need for a method of communication when they are separated. Orsted suggests creating a device similar to the Seven Great World Powers stone monuments and adventurer guild cards. Orsted intends to build the communication device himself. Lastly, Rudeus wants a method for transporting his Magic Armor Mark 1, which is quite bulky. He plans to use summoning magic, but he is currently unable to summon inorganic matter. Rudeus hopes that with some practice, he will be able to do this.

Rudeus visits Cliff. Cliff and Elinalise were having sex earlier in the day, when Rudeus tries to visit. Cliff has a haggard appearance when he greets Rudeus, which has been the case since his child was born. Elinalise greets Rudeus while breastfeeding her baby. Cliff reveals that he has received a letter from his grandfather in Milis. The letter expresses how the grandfather cares for Cliff's well-being and looks forward to Cliff's return; the letter also warns Cliff that there is conflict within the Milis religious order and that Cliff should prepare himself for this if he should return. Cliff indicates that his initial intention was to return to Milis after graduating and that he was prepared to deal with the scheming within the Milis religious order. However, now that Cliff has a family, he is concerned for the well being of his son Clive, as the Milis religious order readily targets the weak and Cliff isn't confident that he can protect his son. Furthermore, Cliff's grandfather is still unaware that Cliff has married an elf and Cliff worries about the scandal this might trigger, as some factions of the Milis religion persecute anyone who isn't human. Therefore, Cliff is conflicted. On one hand, he wants to return home, but on the other, he realizes that he would be exposing his wife and child to danger, and because of his wife's elf heritage, his grandfather might be put in danger as well. Rudeus doesn't know what the right decision is, either. Rudeus offers for Cliff to join Orsted's faction. Cliff would receive Rudeus' and Orsted's support and protect Cliff's family. In return, Cliff would prepare for Laplace's revival. Rudeus explains the plan in detail to Cliff and about their plan to prepare for the battle with Laplace 80 years in the future. Rudeus feels he's offering Cliff a good deal. Cliff asks for more time to think about the offer. Although Rudeus is confused as to why Cliff doesn't agree right away, he respects the request for more time to decide. Cliff plans to give Rudeus an answer at the graduation ceremony, which is in 2 months.

Chapter 2: The Zanoba Store

Rudeus visits Zanoba. As Zanoba is no longer a prince, he has sold off his royal possessions to raise money and bought a house near Rudeus. He lives there with Ginger and Julie. Rudeus pays Zanoba a salary for research and development on the magic armor. Rudeus enters Zanoba's home, to find Zanoba and Julie making dolls together. Rudeus asks Zanoba to resume their project to produce and sell Ruijerd dolls. Rudeus hopes that this will allow him to more easily find Ruijerd, partly so that he can recruit Ruijerd in the fight against Laplace, and partly to simply meet Ruijerd again. Another motivation for resuming the production of the figures is to draw in craftsmen, who may also have ideas for improving the Magic Armor, whose development has stalled. Zanoba and Julie agree to start mass producing Ruijerd figures.

Chapter 3: Cliff and the Institute of Magic Student Council

Cliff visits the staff at the university and submits his thesis, "Tools that suppress curses". The staff at Ranoa University are enthusiastic. They feel this research is going to be recorded in the history books. However, the top graduates are already decided and so although his thesis was the best of that season, Cliff will not be recognized as a top graduate. Cliff doesn't mind this. In the past, he may have thrown a tantrum, but over the years he has changed and no longer feels the need to have the title of the top graduate. Still, Cliff is dissatisfied because his thesis is only on "Suppression" and not "Removal",

He wants to return to Milis, but he doesn't want to endanger his family. He thinks on Rudeus's proposal of join Orsted, He knows that almost all his growth was thanks to Rudeus, but for some reason he doesn't like this fact. He never doubted that he himself was a genius, but when he says that phrase, he feels better about himself.

When he leaving the university, he finds Norn and the student council in a discussion over a Wraith who was draining the mana of the students. Norn is conflicted, as there aren't any adventurers or priests available with exorcism magic to defeat the monster, but she doesn't want to ask her brother for help. Cliff decides to help Norn. Together with the student council, they go to the basement warehouse. This warehouse has several relics. Due to a cleaning proposed by Norn, someone possibly destroyed the old seal which sealed the Wraith. The group finds the wraith and start to fight. The wraith controls various skeletons, whose skill is proportional to the skill of the person while they were alive. The student council group starts to fall apart. Cliff uses his magic eye, finds the weak point of the wraith and defeat the wraith with his magic. They discover that the wraith was born because hundreds of years ago, a teacher locked some students in a room, who ended up dying. The teacher then sealed the room.

Cliff and the student council make an honorary funeral for the deceased students. Cliff asks Norn why she didn't ask Rudeus for help. She answers that she wanted to do everything by herself, as much as possible. They then talk about their future plans. Cliff asks Norn if she will ask Rudeus for help in the future. She responds that she wants to use the knowledge that she's gained at school and to see her own limits. Cliff thanks Norn and in turn, she also thanks Cliff for helping her for all those years.

Lying in his bed at night, Cliff sees the face of Elinalize, and remembers when he first met her. Although she was different than what he expected, she also was more beautiful than expected. They talk and Cliff decides to walk with his own feet and to only ask for Rudeus's help only if necessary, as he don't want to grow dependent.

Chapter 4: Cliff and Zanoba's Graduation Ceremony

In the two months before the graduation ceremony, Rudeus and Zanoba worked on setting up their first store front. They were supported with advice from a member of their mercenary group, who used to own a store but failed. Rudeus reflects on how he was hesitant to accept advice from someone who failed, but decided to give him a chance. They set up their shop as a small warehouse in the outskirts of the workshop district. The small warehouse has enough room to carry their inventory, and it has an associated store front.

At the graduation ceremony, Cliff and Zanoba are lined up with the rest of the graduates. Zanoba was allowed to graduate despite recently dropping out, since he's a special student and Vice Principal Jinas was accommodating. There are about 500 graduates. The student council, led by Norn, are present as well. Brooklyn von Eruzais, a graduate from the royalty of Neris Dukedome, was recognized at the ceremony as a Graduate representative. Rudeus sees Cliff, who has a listless face. Rudeus notes that Cliff in the past would have been angry at not being chosen as representative. After all, Cliff's achievements at Ranoa overshadows all the other graduates. He achieved advanced rank in all four attack magics, advance rank in healing magic, advanced rank in detoxification magic, intermediate rank barrier magic, and advanced rank exorcism magic. On top of that, there is his thesis on suppressing curses. Rudeus looks closer at Cliff''s face and recognizes that he looks troubled. Rudeus speculates that this is because Cliff still hasn't decided on whether to accept Rudeus's offer to join Orsted.

After the graduation ceremony, Rudeus meets with Zanoba and congratulates him. Zanoba notes that although he thought the graduation ceremony would be just an annoyance, he actually enjoyed it. The graduation representative, Brooklyn von Eruzais, introduces himself to Rudeus and challenges him to a duel. Brooklyn acknowledges that he was only recognized as a graduation representative due to his family's influence and that his test results were always second to Cliff. Brooklyn has wanted to test his strength against Rudeus ever since he defeated Badigadi in one hit. Brooklyn explains that when he returns to his home country, he will inherit a position where he is responsible for his subordinates and so will not have the opportunity to test his own strength at his own convenience. Rudeus agrees to the duel.

Rudeus easily defeats Brooklyn. Brooklyn seems to have know this was how it was going to go, and graciously accepts his loss. Other graduates then gather and challenge Rudeus to duels as well. After that, Rudeus dueled with about 20 people. They all left feeling satisfied. The duels weren't tiring for Rudeus, but Zanoba, who was the referee, was tired. They then go meet with Elinalise and Cliff, who were watching the duels from the rooftop. Rudeus congratulates Cliff on his graduation. Rudeus asks Cliff what his plans are. Cliff states that he will stay with his family for the next year, at least until Clive stops breastfeeding. As it takes two years to travel from Sharia to the Holy Land of Milis, Cliff wants to return home two years after graduation, as he feels obligated by a sense of duty. Cliff plans to use the teleportation circles to shorten the travel time. In terms of joining Orsted's company, Cliff declines for now. He wishes to climb the ranks of the Milis order with his own strength, without Orsted's support. Rudeus understands. Rudeus is reminded of the people who challenged him to a duel earlier. It is the desire to test one's own ability. Once he stands at the top of the Milis order, Cliff will become Rudeus and Orsted's associate. After one year, Cliff will leave his family behind for an indeterminate period of time, until he is at the top. Although not happy, Elinalise has accepted Cliff's decision. Rudeus is conflicted. By respecting Cliff's decision, Rudeus risks having Cliff being in a position where he will be murdered, meaning that he will lose his connection to the Holy Milis Kingdom as well as the person best at studying curses. But Rudeus also acknowledges that by allowing him to struggle alone, this may spur personal growth in Cliff. Rudeus decides to respect Cliff's decision. Rudeus thinks to himself that it may be three years before Cliff rejoins them. In the meantime, Rudeus plans to get in touch with Ariel, and increase their mercenary force. Cliff and Rudeus finish their serious conversation. They all go celebrate Cliff and Zanoba's graduation.

Interlude: A Country Bumpkin Visits the City

Nina Farion, from the Holy Land of the Sword, receives a letter. She can read the fact that it comes from Isolte, but she lacks the literacy to read the letter's contents. Illiteracy is not uncommon in the Holy Land of the Sword. She finds someone educated to read the letter for her. The letters contents summarized the events over the last few years. Reida has died and Isolte has taken over the dojo. The coronation for Ariel will occur soon. There is a festival for one month before and after the coronation. Isolte invites Nina to come for the celebration. Nina immediately decides to go.

Arus, the capital of Asura Kingdom, is full of people who have come for the coronation. This is more people than Nina had ever seen before. She also learns that people are also here for the White Knight parade.

Nina meets a merchant. She learns about certain streets that are less crowded. Seeing that she is unable to read, the merchant offers to sell her a picture book and doll; the end of the book has a section for helping one to learn the characters. Nina reluctantly accepts. Nina notes that the doll is of the Supard race.

Nina sees Eris along with Rudeus and Lucy. Nina is shocked at the fact that Eris, who was regarded as a “beast” and “mad dog”, could get married and raise a family. Though not visible to Nina, Roxy, Sylphy, Zanoba, and Julie were nearby as well.

Nina decided against meeting with Eris and instead went to Isolte’s dojo. Nina meets Isolte and her disciples. Nina will be staying at Isolte’s home while in Asura. Isolte shows Nina their home. Nina is relieved at the fact that Isolte doesn’t seem to have a partner.

Isolte invites Nina to a small gathering. Nina agrees to go. Nina soon regrets accepting the invitation when she is forced to change into a dress and is led to a large mansion and realizes that the “small gathering” is actually a large party for nobles.

At the party, Nina goes to the bathroom, but then gets lost. She wanders the venue and sees a room with Ariel and Rudeus inside. She catches glimpses of their conversation and suspects that Rudeus is blackmaililng Ariel for sex. Nina intends to kill Rudeus and save Ariel. Before she does that, she notices Eris standing behinid her. Nina considers her chances of beating both Eris and Rudeus. Ariel and Rudeus then leave the room and greet Nina and Eris. Nina quickly realizes that Ariel wasn’t being threatened. Ariel explains that she was just negotiating with Rudeus. Ariel realizes that Nina was just trying to help her, and so Ariel thanks Nina and introduces herself. Ariel explains that this party was organized by herself and Rudeus.

At the party, Rudeus recruits allies for Orsted. He asks the party attendees to lend their forces to Orsted approximately 80 years in the future, when a certain person wakes up. Nina, like the other attendees, are puzzled by this request, but nevertheless nod and agree.

After the party, Nina was told to stay behind at the venue. Eris informs her and Isolte that this mansion, the party venue, has been gifted to Rudeus by Ariel. The three women, Nina, Eris, and Isolte talk to each other. Speaking with her friends as a group, Nina is reminded of the old days when they trained together.

In the time before Ariel’s coronation, Nina explores the city with Isolte and Eris. After the coronation, Nina returns to the Land of the Holy Sword. She reflects on her visit to Asura Kingdom. She had agreed to join Orsted’s camp for the war in 80 years. She thought of the uncharacteristically happy Eris and how she married Rudeus. On arriving back home, she is greeted by her cousin Jino Britts. Upon seeing him, Nina asks Jino if they want to get married. Within a few months, they got married.

Interlude: Coming-of-Age Ceremony

Norn is doing well as student council president. She is quite popular as president. She is progressing in her magic and swordsmanship. The Rudo Mercenary company is doing well, with Aisha, Linia, and Pursena in charge.

Norn and Aisha's 15th birthday is approaching. The 15th birthday is especially important as it marks becoming an adult.

Rudeus initially plans on throwing a big party, but Roxy points out that Norn would likely prefer a smaller event. Rudeus then tries to plan the party in secret with the rest of the family, but it is pointed out that the party doesn't have to be a surprise and there's no reason to keep the planning process a secret.

The family discusses their plans regarding gifts. Lilia plans to give Norn a handkerchief, and Aisha an apron. Sylphy plans to give Norn a book, and Aisha a quill pen. Roxy plans to give Norn custom-made armor, and Aisha a trowel (magic tool) for gardening. Eris plans to give Norn a sword belt, and Aisha a normal belt. Rudeus plans to give Norn a figurine of Paul, but is unsure of his gift for Aisha. The rest of the family assure Rudeus that Aisha will likely enjoy whatever gift he provides.

Norn was delighted about the birthday party. Aisha had a surprised expression and muttered "I see, so I'm an adult now...".

On the day of the event, Aisha and Norn went to the mercenary office and school respectively, as usual. Aisha returns from the office. She received birthday congratulations, but no gifts as the Beast race do not have this custom. Aisha asks to watch the party preparations. She just watches patiently. Rudeus wonders what she is thinking about. Possibly about what it means to be an adult, or possibly just judging their skills. The food and decoration preparations are then completed. Norn returns home, carrying lots of gifts.

The party begins with Rudeus giving a short speech. He speaks of what it means to be an adult, such as being responsible, continuing to learn, and to have a goal. Lila then gave a speech about when Paul and Zenith were young, and when Norn and Aisha were born. The gifts were then presented. Norn was happy to receive her gifts. Upon receiving her gifts, Aisha also was outwardly joyful, but Rudeus wonders if her smiles are fake. For his gift to Aisha, Rudeus gives her a Migurd pedant, a replica similar to one given to him by Ruijerd. Aisha thanks Rudeus. She didn’t show her “happy face”. She had a blank expression, as if thinking deeply.

After opening the presents, the family enjoyed dinner and the cake. More students then stopped by with gifts for Norn. Linia and Pursena, along with their mercenary group members, then stopped by, having brought along a recently killed wild boar as a gift. Their group wishes Aisha a happy birthday. Aisha accepts their gift and congratulations with a genuine laugh and smile. The wild boar was put on a fire to roast. Everyone enjoyed the feast, with the Beast Race from the mercenary company and stray students joining in. The party eventually ended and everyone left. Aisha muses to herself about what it means to be an adult. She still doesn’t know what it means, but admits that it doesn’t seem unpleasant. Rudeus replies that he doesn’t know the answer either.

Chapter 5: Growth and New Horizons

Rudeus has discovered how to effectively summon his magic armor by using bidirectional magic circles. Orsted has made progress on a communication device. Although not a telephone, it is a lithographic communication device. Anything drawn on the main lithograph is copied onto the sub lithograph. However, the device is heavy and consumes significant magic power so it works best as a stationary device. The first pair has been installed in Orsted's office and one of Ariel's private rooms.

In terms of Rudeus's children, Lucy is now 5 years old. She learns magic from Sylphy and Roxy and learns to swing a stick with Eris. As an older sister, she also gives attention to her younger siblings Lara and Arus. Lara, the future messiah, is now 2 years old. Sacred Beast Leo continues to always be by her side. Arus is now 1 year old. He loves breasts. He smiles with delight whenever he is held and pressed against a female chest. Whenever Rudeus holds him, however, he cries.

After Rudeus's graduation, they go to a tavern to celebrate Cliff's farewell party. Cliff plans to set off on his own to Milis and climb the ranks on his own. Once becoming an executive officer, Cliff plans to return for Elinalize and his son Clive. After the party, Elinalize pulls Rudeus aside and asks him to go to Milis to support Cliff. Although Rudeus previously promised Cliff that he wouldn't help him, Rudeus agrees with Elinalize that Cliff would likely require his help. Rudeus decides to go to Milis.

Rudeus returns home to Aisha, Norn, and Lilia who were already at home. They have received a letter from Claire Latreia, Zenith's mother. The letter was a response to Rudeus's letter which was sent five years ago, which reported Zenith's illness. The letter commands Rudeus to bring Zenith back to Milis, as well as Norn and Aisha. Rudeus is initially surprised by the delayed response, but then remembers that it would take at least two years for mail to travel each way to Milis. Aisha and Norn indicate with their facial expressions that Claire is an unpleasant person to deal with. Rudeus was already planning to go to Milis, so he states that he will go and bring Zenith. Aisha protests that she was planning to set up a mercenary group and Zanoba shop in King Dragon Kingdom. Rudeus replies that he feels that their priorities should shift to Milis, having received this letter. Norn outright refuses to go, as she wants to finish school. Rudeus asks if Aisha would accompany him and Zenith to Milis, where she can set up a mercenary group there. Rudeus tells Aisha that she does not have to meet her grandmother. Aisha therefore happily agrees to go to Milis. Lilia also agrees to accompany them to Milis. Rudeus wonders if Lilia is also reluctant to meet Claire, as Claire is likely an adherent of the Milis faith, which doesn't look favorably on polygamous marriages. They agree to set of dd in about one month. Reflecting back on Norn and Aisha's reaction to their grandmother Claire, Rudeus wonders what kind of person she is.

Aisha starts preparing the paperwork she will need to set up a mercenary group in Milis. Cliff was informed that Rudeus would also be heading to Milis, given the letter he received from Claire Latreia. Cliff didn't hate the idea of Rudeus coming along and in fact was relieved. So, Rudeus,   Lilia, Aisha, and Zenith will be heading to Milis, in addition to Cliff. Sylphy is staying home to manage the kids and housework. Roxy is staying home as well due to poor relations between the Demon race and the Milis kingdom. Eris was prepared to go, but Lilia strongly advised her not to go, as Claire is a "finicky individual" and would likely not get along well with Eris.

Just as the group were ready to leave, it was discovered that Sylphy was pregnant.

Chapter 6: Onward, to Millishion...

Sylphy is pregnant. In the past, Rudeus notes that he would have deliberated on whether to depart on the business trip. Rudeus runs around the garden with glee. Lilia, in contrast, is panicking. She is torn between staying to support Sylphy and with accompanying Zenith to Milis. While Sylphy does several supports, in the form of Roxy, Eris, and Elinalize, she also has three young children to look after as well. Rudeus debates staying home while Sylphy is pregnant, to prioritize his family over work. Zenith then suddenly grabs Lila's hand and leads them to Sylphy, placing Lila's hand on Sylphy's shoulder. It was as if Zenith was trying to ask Lilia to look after Sylphy, and trying to say that she would be alright on her own, so Lilia should stay behind. Lilia therefore agrees to stay home and asks Aisha to take care of Zenith in her place.

They head off. Rudeus brings the lithograph for communication. He also brings a summoning scroll for the mark 1 armor. He wears the mark 2b armor. Over the past month, Rudeus has heard a lot about Claire Latreia. In summary, she's extremely stubborn and strict. From Norn, her only memories of Claire are of Claire getting angry at her for not doing well enough in her studies. From Aisha, she was scolded by Claire for doing better than Norn. As per Lilia, Claire is someone who values lineage and the Milis doctrine. Rudeus is not worried, however, as Claire's description reminds him of Sauros Boreas Greyrat. He reasons that as long as he is civil, that he will be fine. Rudeus asks Cliff about the House Latreia as well. Cliff states that his house Grimoire and House Latreia are enemies. House Grimoire is pro magic race, while House Latreia is anti magic race. House Latreia also has produced several members of the Temple Knights. Cliff muses that with Rudeus's connection to House Latreia, that he will not eventually become his enemy. Rudeus reassures Cliff that he has no intention of being his enemy. They joke that one of Rudeus's kids can marry Cliff's kid, Clive, to solidify their friendship.

They use the teleportation circle in Orsted's office, which brings them to a forest approximately 7 days of travel outside of Milis. They buy a horse carriage at a city and arrive uneventfully at the capital of Holy Milis country, Milishion.

Chapter 7: Cliff's Homecoming

They arrive at the capital city of Milis, Milishion. Rudeus is amazed at the beautiful white palace. Cliff agrees, but wonders if the people who run it from the inside are "dirty", sleazy and unethical. They decide to take a carriage to Cliff's family's estate. After 10 years, Cliff has returned to Milishion.

They enter through the Adventurer's district. They see lots of people of different races. They then see Gisu.

Gisu is very happy to see the group. He tells them what happened when they parted in Sharia. Gisu, Talhand, Vera, and Shera arrived on schedule in Asura Kingdom. There, they sold the magic stones for a fortune. Vera and Shera retired from being adventurers with their share and returned to their home town. Gisu lost all his money to gambling and sank into debt. Talhand, seeing Gisu's terrible state of debt, sold off his magic gauntlets, which took his entire fortune to produce, to pay off Gisu's debts. Rudeus notes that they must have been very good friends for Talhand to help Gisu to that extent. Together, Talhand and Gisu traveled back to Milis. From here, Talhand returned to his hometown, leaving Gisu alone. Gisu has returned to adventuring.

Before entering the religious district, Gisu says his farewells and leaves on his own once again. As suddenly as he appeared, he suddenly departed. Before leaving, he asks Rudeus if he remembers Paul's words while they were in the labyrinth. Rudeus remembers.

They arrive at Cliff's house by sundown. To Rudeus's surprise, it is just an ordinary single family home as opposed to a large mansion. Cliff explains that his grandfather, the Pope, has a room at the headquarters, so this house isn't used. As it is already late, Cliff invites Rudeus and his group stay at his home, which Rudeus accepts. They enter the house and find the place very dusty. Rudeus volunteers Aisha to help with the cleaning, to Aisha's disgust. As a group, they clean the house and then have dinner.

Rudeus, Aisha, and Zenith all sleep in the guest room. Rudeus asks Aisha if she wants to be his maid for the foreseeable future, as Lilia wishes. Aisha is not sure. They briefly discuss who Aisha's future love interest could be. They plan to go to the Latreia house tomorrow. Aisha says that she will go as well, despite her dislike of Claire, to fulfill her promise to Lilia.

Chapter 8: The House of Latria

They enter the Latreia residence. Rudeus marvels at how large the house is. The guards immediately hurry towards the mansion the moment they see Zenith. Aisha again reminds Rudeus of the fact that their grandmother, Claire Latreia, is an extremely unpleasant person. Rudeus nevertheless feels that he will be OK as he has experience dealing with unpleasant people.

Their group is welcomed into the home. They wait for Claire in the drawing room. Rudeus notes that Aisha is dressed as a servant with her usual frilly dress. Rudeus invites Aisha to sit while they wait and Aisha hesitates, but reluctantly agrees.

An old woman, who Rudeus quickly identifies as Claire, enters the room. Rudeus stands to greet her, but is ignored. Claire is accompanied by Andel, who introduces himself to Rudeus as their family physician. Claire then reprimands Aisha for sitting down, as she labels Aisha as merely a maid. Rudeus quickly tries to defend Aisha, explaining that he told Aisha to sit down, and that Aisha is his sister and should not be treated as a maid. Claire responds people are identified based on their clothes and that those wearing a maid uniform will be treated as a maid. Rudeus asks why he was initially ignored. Claire ignored him as she couldn’t rule out the possibility that he was an imposter, and judged it best to not reply to his greeting. Claire acknowledges that Zenith is real and that she remembers Aisha. She asks Rudeus to prove that he is his grandson. Rudeus states that the fact that he has brought Zenith and Aisha and has her letter is proof enough. Claire’s eyebrows twitch. She responds that she is then not able to recognize him as a member of Latreia. Rudeus counter that that he is one of the heads of the Greyrat family and has no need to be recognized as being a part of the Latreia family. He explains that he has close ties with Queen Ariel and that he is a subordinate to Orsted the Dragon God. Seemingly acknowledging his social standing, Claire apologizes for her earlier impoliteness and properly introduces herself as Claire Latreia, wife of the battalion chief of the Temple knight party. Likewise, Rudeus gives himself a proper introduction to Claire.

They all take a seat and have tea. Rudeus invites Aisha to sit as well. Claire’s eyebrows twitch, but she does not protest. Zenith is being examined by the physician. Rudeus apologizes for being unable to cure Zenith. Claire dismissively replies that a village such as Rudeus’s hometown would likely have limited means to treat curses. Rudeus counters that he has actually had significant access to expertise in healing magic, through the healers in Sharia as well as through the help of both Orsted and Perugius. Claire doesn’t believe that Rudeus knows Perugius. She then abruptly changes the subject and asks how Norn is doing. Rudeus explains that she is enrolled in Ranoa Magic university, and that she was left behind so that her studies wouldn’t be affected. Rudeus tells Claire that Norn is doing well in her studies and is student council president, to Claire’s surprise. Claire then commands Rudeus to bring Norn to Milis after her graduation, so that Claire can find a partner for Norn to marry. Claire makes clear that the person that Norn marries is ultimately Claire’s decision, as the head of the family. Rudeus reflects on how the warnings were true about Claire being unpleasant.

The doctor finishes his examination of Zenith. He notes how Zenith’s body is healthy, and that she appears younger than her actual age. The doctor then asks Rudeus and Aisha various questions such as about Zenith’s diet, day to day activities, physical, and mental health. He tells Claire that he sees no issues with Zenith and that even her mind seems stable. Claire asks if Zenith can give birth to more children, which the doctor confirms is possible. Rudeus jokes that he feels they are planning his mother’s second marriage. Claire gives him a cold look. She states that in Milis, a woman’s worth is dependent on her ability to give birth.

Claire then abruptly changes the subject again and tells Rudeus to cut ties with the Priest of the Pope’s faction. She is aware of his friendship with Cliff. The Latreia have started to associate with the Cardinal’s faction, who wish to ostracize the demon race. Simply not supporting the Pope’s faction is not enough, Claire commands that Rudeus cut all ties with anybody associated with the Pope’s faction. Rudeus asks if he at least remain friends with Cliff. Claire refuses. She states that if he continues to associate with the Pope’s faction, he will not be permitted to stay in the Latreia house. Rudeus feels the situation is hopeless and tries to calm himself. He rationalizes to himself that he knew Claire had a difficult personality and that he knew his friendship with Cliff could cause problems with his relationship with Claire.

Claire commands Rudeus to leave Zenith here and to depart. Referring to Zenith, she announces that as long as “this thing” can give birth, Zenith can be married off. Claire intends to marry her off to the nobility of the Cardinal faction. Claire notes that Zenith’s healthy body is a blessing in disguise. Rudeus is livid at hearing these words from Claire, at how she treats her own daughter like an object.

Rudeus is not able to remember what happens next. He remembers shouting loudly, grabbing Zenith and quickly leaving the Latreia residence, easily pushing any guards aside with magic. He soon finds himself at the border of the holy district. When Rudeus’s anger settles down, he is comforted by Aisha with a hug. Aisha muses that they weren’t able to make a connection with the Latreia house for their mercenary company. Rudeus had almost forgot about this. He announces that he doesn’t want Claire’s assistance anyway. Rudeus decides to try to make connections with Cliff’s faction instead. It is now late, so they decide to once again lodge at Cliff’s house.

Chapter 9: Headquarters of the Millis Church

Rudeus returns to Cliff’s house. He sees Cliff hugging an unfamiliar woman. Rudeus initially assumes that Cliff is cheating on Elinalize. Cliff asks Rudeus why he has returned, as Rudeus had initially planned to stay at the Latreia house. Rudeus recounts his visit to the Latreia house and his meeting with Claire. Cliff tries to get Rudeus to consider the situation from Claire’s perspective. He has Rudeus consider that by marrying Zenith to nobility, she will be able to receive assistance. Rudeus acknowledges to himself that he didn’t consider this. Cliff offers Rudeus to stay at his home. Rudeus considers sending Zenith back to Sharia, to protect her from the Latreia. But Cliff suggests that it would be a pity to send her back so soon after finally returning to her hometown. Rudeus agrees that its reasonable to least let Zenith visit her hometown before heading back to Sharia.

Cliff introduces Wendy, the unfamiliar woman. She is a childhood friend of his, from when they lived together in the orphanage. She was hired to do housework at Cliff’s place (???).

Rudeus asks Aisha of her opinion on whether he should send Zenith back to Sharia at once, or to stay for a short while to let her visit her hometown. Cliff confirms that he feels his house will be safe from the Latreia. They ultimately feel that the chance of being harassed by the Latreia is low, and that they will remain in Cliff’s house. Cliff offers for Rudeus to meet his grandfather and make connections with his faction. Rudeus agrees.

The next day, they go to the Milis Church Headquarters. Rudeus is stopped at the entrance as he doesn’t have a license to enter, although Cliff does. Cliff enters and promises Rudeus he will make a temporary license for him. Rudeus decides to stroll around the grounds outside the building. Rudeus admires the Saraku flowers, a plant with pink colored flowers that bloom at the beginning of spring. He then sees a plump young lady with a frill dress. She is surrounded by 7 men who shower her with praise and address her as Miko-sama. They are wearing armor and Rudeus estimates that they are at least Advanced rank in sword play. The men turn towards Rudeus and ask if he is a follower of the Milis faith. When he doesn’t answer immediately, they unsheathe their swords and point it at him. They accuse Rudeus of being an infidel and heretic. Rudeus tries to apologize. They then decide to kill him. Rudeus continues to try to de-escalate as he doesn’t want to cause a scene and ruin the beautiful garden. Rudeus prepares his magic for combat when a female knight interrupts to ask what is happening. The men address her as captain and claims that Rudeus was inflicting danger to Miko. Rudeus retorts that this is a lie. The female knight then recognizes Rudeus and warmly welcomes Rudeus. The woman is Therese Latreia, Zenith’s younger sister and Rudeus’s aunt. The person who assisted Rudeus during his voyage from the Milis Continent to the Central Continent many years ago. Therese is the leader of these men. On her command, the men quickly withdrew their swords.

Rudeus chats with Therese. Rudeus tells her about his meeting with Claire. Therese tries to defend Claire, saying that there might have been a misunderstanding. Therese is in high spirits. She asks Rudeus how Eris is doing and learns that they are now married with a child. Therese is currently the Miko’s escort and manages these men. The Miko then joins the conversation. Rudeus introduces himself as Dragon God Orsted’s subordinate and as Eris’s husband. It turns out that Eris was the one that saved the Miko’s life over 10 years ago, when she set out to exterminate Goblins but ended up stopping an assassination. The Miko thanks Orsted for ultimately saving her life. But Rudeus clarifies that he and Eris actually didn’t know Orsted 10 years ago. But if she feels a sense of debt toward Orsted, Orsted would be able to express his appreciation in the future. Rudeus explains that Orsted has a curse that makes people hate him. The Miko stares at him and confirms he is telling the truth. She reveals that this is her power as a Miko. Rudeus asks her if Hitogami has appeared in her dreams. She denies that this has ever occurred and states it can never happen. Rudeus believes her and wonders if it may be somehow related to her power. The Miko then asks Rudeus to tell her more about Eris. Rudeus agrees but before he can do so, he is interrupted by Cliff calling out for him, presumably having attained a license for him. Rudeus and the Miko and her entourage part ways. They promise to meet again to talk about Eris. Rudeus entrusts a message to Therese to pass to Claire, that he will “carry the responsibility for my mother’s problem so interference is futile”. Therese agrees to pass on the message.

Chapter 10: The Pope, and...

Just before entry Rudeus was thoroughly scanned for any weapons. The church was designed like a maze. It was designed to defend against enemy invasions similar to a castle. Cliff guided Rudeus smoothly. He states that Rudeus can't use Magic here as it was guarded by a barrier of Saint or King tier.Cliff's grandfather, Harry Grimoire(Pope) had the appearance of a gentle old man with a magnanimous heart. Cliff introduces Rudeus, but the Pope had already done his fair share of research about his life and purpose for coming here. When Rudeus was in the middle of processing why the Pope knew so much about him, he didn't even react to him. This led the Pope to believe that Rudeus was a badass and capable of being called the right hand of Orsted. The Pope told about everything he knew about Rudeus from where he was born to how he ended up here. Rudeus corrected him about some details like how he was tutored by Roxy and also about how some of his fights were helped by his friends and that he didn't do everything alone. The Pope considered Rudeus to be quite honest.

The purpose of Rudeus for being here were mainly: 1. To Establish the Rudo Mercenary Group in Milis. 2. To get permission to sell the Superd figures. 3. To form an alliance with Orsted for the future. The Pope wanted Rudeus to make his intentions clear. Did he befriend Cliff to get these things and would he support Cliff from here on out? To which Rudeus stated that he wanted to help Cliff because of his request to let him grow on his own. Rudeus would abstain from doing anything to support Cliff unless he wanted him to until Cliff became a Strong Figure in Milis. The Pope was quite happy from Rudeus's answer as he thought Cliff had finally made a True Friend. The Pope agreed to the 1st Demand but hesitated about the 2nd as even though their side were the Demon Integrationists, the Cardinalists (The side which Latriea family supported) had more influence and the future Pope would also be from their side. So he wouldn’t be able to grant his demand as he didn’t have that power. Rudeus understood that the Pope subtly implied that for his 2nd Demand to be met, he would also have to support the the Pope’s side and defeat the Cardinalists first. Rudeus was conflicted that this would count as help for Cliff, even though it was a bit of a gray area as he was also doing it for his own sake. He thought about leaving it for another day as he didn’t have to do everything in 1 day.

Rudeus left the meeting, feeling tired after encountering two exceptional individuals from opposite factions.Rudeus thought about which side he would pick, it was easy for him to choose the Demon integrationists but he felt conflicted as Therese who had saved his life twice was from the other side, also he didn't had any problems with Miko(Blessed Child) either except his entourage; Even though he didn't like Latrieas specially Claire but he couldn't forget the debt he owed them for funding paul's search party and also for taking care of his little sister, So he decided to postpone deciding a side for the time being. Rudeus planned to meet Miko a few more times to better understand her abilities and determine if she was an apostle of Hitogami, although he knew it would be nearly impossible to deduce. He resolved to stop overthinking about apostles and deal with them as they appeared, as it could be anyone Miko, Claire, or even the Pope. Next, Rudeus decided to focus on setting up the Mercenary building. He intended to install a contact tablet and consult Orsted about the matter. Since Aisha was proficient in handling business affairs, he entrusted her with managing the details, such as selecting a location and attracting merchants. Once he had made these decisions, Rudeus headed home.

Rudeus was making his way to Cliff's residence, contemplating his food choices. Upon entering the house, he witnessed an unusual scene: Aisha was angrily yelling at Wendy, which was out of character for her. Concerned, Rudeus intervened just as Aisha was about to strike Wendy, urging her to explain the situation. Aisha struggled to find the right words, and Wendy stepped in to provide the details. Here's what had happened: Geese had arrived and claimed to be a friend of Zenith. Seeing Zenith in distress, he wanted to take her out of the house. Aisha added that they hadn't returned since then.

Rudeus felt a bit perplexed and requested Aisha to start from the very beginning. Aisha began by describing Geese's visit that afternoon to Cliff's house. Although Aisha hadn't personally seen Geese, she became convinced after Wendy described his appearance, way of speaking, physique, equipment, and the content of their conversation. Aisha had been away at the market to get supplies and, upon her return, immediately searched for Zenith but found no trace of her. This left Aisha on the verge of tears. Rudeus reassured her, believing that Geese might have lost track of time but trusted that he wouldn't allow any harm to come to Zenith, despite his lackluster combat skills. Rudeus decided to wait for a while, hoping they would return. When Cliff returned after sunset and learned about the situation, he scolded Wendy, albeit not severely as she had no ill intentions.

As dinner approached, Rudeus made the decision to search for Zenith. Worries flooded his mind, considering the possibility of Zenith being kidnapped by the Latria household or Geese getting into a fight. Aisha insisted on joining the search, suggesting they split up. However, Rudeus deemed it unsafe and took Aisha along. He equipped himself with armor and, lacking confidence in horse riding, carried Aisha in a princess-carry position, running faster than a horse. Rudeus couldn't shake off the fear of repeating a situation like Shirone's, while fearing his lack of knowledge and confusion between allies and enemy; He steeled himself for whatever lay ahead.