Information

Summary

Chapter 1 : Zanoba’s Decision

Zanoba explains the situation to his friends: Cliff, Rudeus, Elinalise, Julie and Ginger. His brother Pax was exiled to the King Dragon Realm, gained their backing, and successfully initiated a coup in Shirone. He killed the previous Shirone king and the rest of the royal family, and became the new king of Shirone Kingdom. As a result of the coup, Shirone's military force has declined, and they worry that the countries to the north will take advantage of the situation and attack Shirone. Therefore, Zanoba was summoned by King Pax to return to Shirone to defend his home nation.

Cliff and Rudeus question Zanoba on why he wants to comply with the summon and return home. They warn him that this is likely a trap for Pax to have Zanoba killed. Zanoba admits he doesn't want to work under Pax. However, Zanoba reflects on how due to his lack of control over his own strength, he has ripped the heads off of several people, including his former wife, which precipitated a civil war. But despite all this, he was not punished. Zanoba therefore feels that he owes his country in return. Zanoba feels that he was spared punishment so that he could save his country in times of crisis. He acknowledges that if  he returns, he will likely die. Rudeus doesn't want his friend to die, so he announces that he will be accompanying Zanoba to Shirone.

Rudeus discusses this situation with Orsted. Orsted reveals that in his timeline, thirty years into the future, Pax started a coup and took over the throne. He then began questioning his own kingship, vacated throne and reorganized the kingdom into a republic. The Shirone republic became a major world power and was a hindrance to Hitogami. Orsted warns that Zanoba being summoned back is likely bait to draw in and kill both Rudeus and Zanoba, who makes Rudeus's equipment. Orsted wonders if someone in the King Dragon Realm may be Hitogami's apostle.Orsted announces that he will go to the King Dragon Realm to investigate for apostles, while Rudeus goes to Shirone to help Zanoba, despite it being a trap. Orsted asks Rudeus to avoid killing Pax, even if he's an apostle, as if he's killed Shirone cannot become a republic.

Chapter 2 : Bad Omens

Rudeus tells his family that he will go to Shirone. Lara then starts crying. Roxy sees this as a sign, and she decides to accompany Rudeus to Shirone; when Roxy announces this, Lara instantly stops crying. Rudeus reveals that going to Shirone is likely a trap set by Hitogami, but Roxy still insists on going. Rudeus and Zanoba prepare their combat equipment before going to Shirone. Rudeus brings both his bulky Magic Armor Mark 1, and the more manageable Magic Armor Mark 2b, as well as the shotgun cannon. They go to  Sky Castle to borrow Perugius's magic teleportation circles. Zanoba explains to Perugius his situation and why he is heading back to Shirone. Perugius also tries to convince Zanoba not to go back to Shirone, as he doesn't want Zanoba to die. Perugius enjoys Zanoba's company and their chats about art. Zanoba asks to borrow Perugius's magic teleportation circles. He also begs Perugius to temporarily lift the rule that bans all Magic Race, and to allow Roxy to enter Sky Castle so that she may also use the magic teleportation circles. Perugius reluctantly agrees, under the condition that Roxy not speak and not touch anything. Ginger goes ahead of the group to investigate Shirone Kingdom. She discovers that King Pax has 10 knights from the King Dragon Realm, and that one of them is one of the Seven Great World Powers, the Death God.

Chapter 3 : The Return to Shirone

The night before their departure, Orsted visits Rudeus's house for an emergency meeting. Orsted gives his predictions based on Ginger's report. Regarding Pax's 10 knights, nine of them are likely weak. However, the tenth knight is likely Death God Randolph Marianne, who is ranked fifth of the Seven Great World Powers. The Death God has the ability Sword of Luring, which entices an enemy to attack when he should retreat, and Sword of Hesitation, which forces an enemy to retreat when he should attack. Orsted reassures Rudeus that although he is a difficult opponent, Rudeus should be able to handle him, now that he understands his enemy's ability. Orsted advises Rudeus to attack from a distance. In terms of the Death God's backstory, Randolph Marianne is the grandson of the second North God. After beating the original Death God, he gained the title. He then was fed up with fighting and retired to become a chef in his hometown in the King Dragon Realm. He had no talent as a chef and became buried in debt. He was then picked up by a general of the King Dragon Realm, and became a knight of the kingdom.

Rudeus says goodbye to his family. Julie will be living with Rudeus's family, while Zanoba and Ginger are gone. Rudeus and Roxy then meet up with Zanoba at the city entrance. Cliff and Elinalise are there too, and they say their goodbyes. They go to Sky Castle. They say goodbye to Nanahoshi. They use the magic teleportation circle and arrive in a teleportation ruin on the edge of Shirone Kingdom, five days journey to the capital. The group arrives in Shirone. They plan to have an audience with the King tomorrow. Rudeus considers in his mind various outcomes from their meeting with the King and considers how he will eventually get Zanoba to return. Roxy sees that Rudeus is stressed and tells him to relax.

Chapter 4 : King Pax

Rudeus and Zanoba have an audience with King Pax. Pax questions them on how they arrived in Shirone so quickly, but doesn't pursue the matter when Zanoba refuses to give a clear answer. Pax also questions why Rudeus is present. Pax wonders out loud if Rudeus is there to kill him. Zanoba denies this. Pax introduces Death God Randolph Marianne. Randolph introduces himself; he explains that his main job is killing, but that his hobby is cooking, and that he's a nice guy. Pax asks Zanoba if they should let Rudeus and Randolph fight to see who is stronger. Rudeus readies himself for a fight. Pax then defuses the situation as he says he was joking. Pax says he no longer holds a grudge against Zanoba and Rudeus. Pax recounts how he was sent to the King Dragon Realm. While there, Pax worked on improving himself, developing his magic and physique. Pax then gained the attention of the King and was offered a reward. Pax asked for permission to marry the eighteenth Princess Benedikte Kingdragon. The king gives permission, under the condition that Pax return to Shirone, attain a high ranking role, and then  have Shirone send another prince as an exchange. Shirone Kingdom refused. This enraged the Dragon King, who sent his most able knights, Death God Randolph and the Order of Black Knights, with Pax to initiate a coup. They murdered the rest of the royal family, and installed Pax on the throne, which brings us back to present day. Zanoba asks why he was summoned if Pax has access to the Death God. Pax responds that the Death God is a loan from the Dragon King. Pax reassures Zanoba that he has no plans to exact revenge on Zanoba, and asks Zanoba to lend his strength. Zanoba accepts. Pax then gives Zanoba command over Fort Karon and tells him to stop the northern invasion.

Zanoba and Rudeus then leave the audience room. Zanoba feels that Pax has changed. Rudeus jokes that Pax may be manipulated by an evil god. Zanoba, however, asks if Rudeus is referring to the evil god he is fighting against. Zanoba refers to the dinner they had with Cliff, where Rudeus revealed that he was working with Orsted to fight Hitogami. Zanoba thought it was a joke at the time, but with Cliff working on an anti-curse device for Orsted and all of Rudeus's missions, Zanoba started to wonder if the evil god may be real. Rudeus then reveals the truth about Hitogami, how Pax may be manipulated by Hitogami, and that Rudeus is forbidden from killing Pax. Zanoba announces he will try to protect Pax from Hitogami. Rudeus worries to himself whether there is a trap, and whether Pax may change his mind and try to kill Zanoba. Rudeus thinks to himself that he will discuss this with Roxy tomorrow.

Chapter 5 : Fort Karon

Rudeus discusses with Roxy all his worries and concerns, such as the fact that he is suspicious of the king of King Dragon Realm and that he is uncertain about Hitogami's intent. Roxy reveals that new information from Ginger has arrived. Their force at Fort Karon is only staffed with 500 soldiers, while their enemy's force is nearly 5000. However, given that Rudeus and Roxy are Emperor ranked and King ranked magicians respectively, each of them could theoretically hold off over 1000 soldiers. They debate on whether Pax intended their placement to be a trap, given that they are outnumbered. Rudeus considers his current hypothesis on the identities of Hitogami's three apostles: one is the king of King Dragon Realm, another is someone from the group attacking Fort Karon, but the third person is still unknown. They agree that going to Fort Karon is likely a trap, but they go anyway as they wish to save Zanoba. They know that Zanoba will go regardless.

Rudeus relays to Zanoba about the fact that Fort Karon has 500 soldiers against 5000 attacking soldiers. Zanoba remains unworried as he knows he has Rudeus and Roxy on his side, each worth at least 1000 soldiers. He also points out that since they are defending a fort, they are in an advantageous position as it typically takes forces 3 times an occupying force to storm a castle. Rudeus warns that Zanoba is likely being used as a sacrificial pawn by Pax, but Zanoba remains undeterred. He is fine with the idea of being sacrificed and continues to insist that fighting for his country is his duty.

Roxy, Rudeus and Zanoba travel to Fort Karon. Ginger remains in the capitol. During the journey, Rudeus is anxious about the idea of entering a war, but neither Zanoba or Roxy are bothered. After 9 days of travel, they reach Fort Karon. They meet Shirone Knight Garrick Babiliti, the one currently in command. Zanoba informs Garrick that he will be taking over command, but given his inexperience, he will continue to rely on Garrick. Zanoba then gathers all the troops for a speech and introduction. Zanoba introduces himself as well as Rudeus and Roxy. He highlights their incredible power and successfully raises his troops' morale. Rudeus is impressed with Zanoba's show of leadership.

Chapter 6 : Preparations for War

Rudeus and Zanoba go outside of Fort Karon to the locations where they expect to be attacked. Rudeus spends time modifying the terrain with earth magic and setting traps to make it difficult for the advancing enemy. Rudeus assembles his magic armor, which is meant for close combat. Rudeus fortifies the fort. Roxy teaches magic to the soldiers and other staff at the fort. Rudeus notes that while Roxy and Zanoba are popular, others seem to be afraid of him and avoid him, which he suspects is due to the fact that he rearranged the battlefield so effortlessly. They have received support from King Dragon Realm, not through reinforcements, but by sending supplies, which include food, such as rice. They receive news that the enemy troops will arrive in approximately five days. They continue with their preparations. Roxy works on drawing magic circles which generate fire magic, meant for multiple soldiers to use. Rudeus thinks to himself that he will have to kill in this war, and reflects on how he has killed others in the past and it left a bad aftertaste. Rudeus confides in Roxy that he is reluctant to kill people. Roxy reveals that while she has never been in a war, she has no issue with killing others, based on her experience adventuring.

Chapter 7 : The Battle

Zanoba and a crew of 100 men had gone off on their own mission, which is apparently to kill or capture the enemy commander. The battle with the enemy had begun. The enemy started using magic to try to fill in the trenches and traps that Rudeus had built. Rudeus is able to easily counteract these attempts. The enemies then try to advance by building bridges over the traps. The Fort Karon shoot fire attacks at the enemy, using magic circles. The enemy tries to protect their own troops and counteract the fire attacks with water magic of their own. Because of this, however, Rudeus is able to see origin of this water magic, and therefore the location of the magicians. He easily eliminates the enemy magicians. With the enemy magicians gone, the Shirone forces are easily able to crush their enemies using magic, as the enemy no longer has a method to counteract magic. The Shirone easily win the battle with minimal losses.

Prince Zanoba then returns. Only 10 of his original 100 soldiers remain. However, they were successful in capturing the enemy's commander, who is a member of the enemy's royal family. With this, they hope to negotiate to end the war. While they were within the enemy lines, Zanoba reveals that he and his team were caught in Rudeus and Roxy's attacks. Zanoba tells Rudeus not to feel guilty about this and that any blame lays solely on him.

That evening, an assailant from the enemy came to try to rescue their royal family member. Rudeus is able to quickly stun the assailant and hand him over to the fort's soldiers. Rudeus is worries that he will be attacked this night by the Death God, but no attack ever comes.

The next morning, Zanoba and Rudeus interrogate their royal hostage. They learn that the northern enemy had been planning an attack on Shirone for some time, and the hostage denied any knowledge of Hitogami. Rudeus wonders if maybe coming to Shirone wasn't a trap after all and that Hitogami had nothing to so with this.

Chapter 8 : An Urgent Message, and Zanoba’s True Feelings

Ten days later, the enemy nation has offered a truce. Fort Karon sends a message back to capital about the victory, the hostage, and the possible truce.

Ginger arrives at Fort Karon, back from the capital. She reports that a local warlord Jade has risen up and launched a coup against King Pax, in the name of 11th prince Haruha Shirone. Jade has launched an attack at this time hoping that the battle at Fort Karon would go poorly, forcing Pax to send the Death God, leaving Pax vulnerable. This did not happen, but nevertheless, Jade felt that this was still the best time to attack.

Zanoba announces that he will return to the capital to defend Pax. Ginger and Rudeus are surprised. They point out that Zanoba has finished his duty of protecting his country, and to return back to Sharia with them. Zanoba reveals that his main motivation isn't just to protect his country, but to also protect Pax, who is his younger brother. Hearing this, Rudeus respects Zanoba's decision to remain in Shirone to protect Pax. Ginger strongly dislikes Pax as he had kidnapped her family as hostages in the past. She accepts that she cannot change Zanoba's mind. She asks Zanoba to promise not to die even if Pax orders it. Rudeus answers on Zanoba's behalf and promises to make sure Zanoba doesn't die.

Chapter 9 : To Pax’s Side

Rudeus, Zanoba, and Roxy travel back to the Shirone capital city Latakia. Rudeus wears his magic armor mark 1 on the trip, despite its magical power drain, so that he can avoid disassembling and reassembling the armor en route.

They reach Latakia after 5 days. At the entrance to royal castle, there were a large number of people, including soldiers, merchants and adventurers. Zanoba suggests that they enter the castle by a secret passageway, to avoid getting detected. He directs them to an underground passageway by the watermill. At Rudeus's suggestion, they then take a break, to relieve their travel fatigue.

They travel through the underground passageway. The passageway is narrow, so Rudeus swaps out the bulky, but powerful Mark 1 armor for the more portable, but less powerful Mark 2 armor. They go to the end of the passageway and open a metal door, whereupon they find a dead end. Roxy suggests that the passageway may have been sealed by an earthquake or intentionally by Jade's forces. So, Rudeus uses earth magic to tunnel through. They then find themselves in a cave, which Roxy identifies as being similar to a labyrinth. At Roxy's advice, Rudeus keeps digging a path until they reach another passage. They follow this passage until they find themselves in the room in the castle where Rudeus was imprisoned, many years ago, and where Zanoba and Rudeus first met. They search the castle floor by floor, but see no one. Not a single person. They eventually reach the King's room on the fifth floor and they see the Death God Randolph guarding the room.

Randolph is sitting on a chair, looking relaxed. He comments how having a room on the fifth floor is inconvenient and how if he were king, his room would be on the first floor. Zanoba asks about the state of the castle. Randolph reveals a red eye with six stars under his eye patch, and states that he used his eye to construct a barrier around the castle to protect the King. Everyone else who isn't dead has fled the castle. Zanoba tries to enter the King's room, but the Death God Randolph refuses to let him pass, stating that he was ordered by the king to let no one pass. Zanoba tries to force himself through, but Randolph easily pushes Zanoba away. Rudeus tries to defuse the situation. He notes to himself that since both Randolph and their side are trying to protect Pax, they shouldn't be enemies. Rudeus thinks to himself that it would a different matter if Randolph were Hitogami's apostle, but he feels that this is unlikely, since if this was the case Pax would be dead already. However, just to be sure, Rudeus asks Randolph if he knows of Hitogami. Randolph laughs and confirms that he does.

Rudeus now considers Randolph to be his enemy and prepares himself for combat. In response, Randolph draws his sword, which emits a green light. Rudeus muses to himself that he is only wearing the Mark 2 armor.

Chapter 10 : Wasted Effort All Around

Rudeus, Roxy, and Zanoba fight the Death God Randolph. They initially land a series of blows, and although Randolph initially pretends to be hurt, he shrugs them off. He lands a significant blow on Roxy, which she only survived due to one time use magic items. Rudeus recognizes that this battle is not winnable and instructs Roxy and Zanoba to retreat. Rudeus asks Randolph what instructions he's receives from Hitogami. Randolph reveals that while he has heard of Hitogami, he has never actually spoken to him. Rudeus realizes that he has misjudged and they apologize to each other for fighting. Randolph states that King Pax's "ritual" has now ended and so they may enter to meet him.

They enter Pax's room. They see Pax's wife, Benedict, laying in the bed and they can smell the scent of recent sex. Pax is standing in the balcony. Zanoba announces he is here to help and that they may retreat to Fort Karon. Pax rejects this idea. He monologues about how he had tried his best to be a good king and as evidenced by the current rebellion, his subjects still do not support him. Pax reflects on how none of his efforts are ever rewarded. He recounts up how when he was learning magic under Roxy, he excitedly showed her how he mastered intermediate magic and Roxy only sighed. Pax reveals that this was particularly devastating for him as he greatly respected Roxy and felt she was the only one to give him attention, and still his efforts were not recognized. Pax feels like a failure. The King of the King Dragon Realm gave him Shirone kingdom, but is ultimately not recognized as king by its people.

Suddenly, Pax jumps off the balcony. They try to catch him, but he hits the ground and dies. Pax had committed suicide. Rudeus and Zanoba are shocked at the sudden turn of events. Zanoba wonders if Pax's death was Hitogami's doing. Rudeus admits that it is possible.

Chapter 11 : Aftermath

Rudeus plans to cremate Pax's corpse, but Zanoba wants to bring Pax's body to the rebels, so that the revolt could conclude. They see that Randolph is carrying Benedict on his back. Randolph was aware of Pax's plan for suicide. He was instructed to then bring his wife Benedict back to the King Dragon Realm. As a group, they all travel back through the secret passageway. They see the Mark 1 magic armor on the other end. Randolph notes that if Rudeus had used this armor, that Randolph would have been in trouble. He further notes that contrary to Rudeus's assessment, Randolph was actually becoming worn down from their attacks. Rudeus wonders if maybe they could have won if they didn't second guess themselves, but decides it doesn't matter because the correct choice would have been to avoid fighting in the first place.

Rudeus questions Randolph on how he knows Hitogami. Randolph reports that he heard a story from one of his relatives, the demon lord Badigadi. In order to protect his fiancée, Badigadi stole the Fighting God Armor at the suggestion of Hitogami, and fought Dragon God Laplace. In the end, he failed to protect the fiancée, and the two struck one another down. Although Randolph feels this story is a myth, it is through this story had he has heard of Hitogami. Rudeus thinks to himself that he has heard the story of how the Fighting God and Dragon King had fought from both Kirishika and Orsted, but he also finds it strange that someone as lighthearted as Badigadi would do something like this.

Randolph indicates he will return to the King Dragon Realm. When Benedict gives birth, Randolph will then raise the child. Randolph then parts ways with the group, carrying Benedict.

Jade's rebels have taken over the castle. The rebels are celebrating their victory. Pax's corpse is displayed in towns square. Most people are indifferent. Pax's reign was short. He was neither hated nor loved. Seeing his dead brother's corpse, Zanoba is quite emotional. Rudeus wonders of he should have cremated Pax after all. Rudeus can see in Zanoba's face that he did indeed care for Pax. Rudeus ruminates on how he should have been able to save Pax and he wonders if Jade was actually Hitogami's apostle. Rudeus thinks to himself that it doesn't matter now, and all their efforts have been for nothing.

Roxy is depressed, now knowing how her failure to be encouraging as a teacher had a major negative impact on Pax. She admits to Rudeus that she did indeed sigh when Pax showed how he mastered intermediate magic. She admits she may have been comparing Pax to Rudeus, who was naturally gifted at magic. While she recognized she didn't do a great job as a teacher, she blamed it on the environment at the royal palace at the time. She didn't realize how her attitude had such an effect on Pax, until he mentioned it just before his death. Roxy cries. She asks Rudeus how she can continue to be a teacher. Rudeus comforts her. He reassures her that she will learn from her mistakes and will continue to improve as a teacher. Rudeus further states how Roxy had a major positive impact on his life as his teacher, and greatly contributed to his personal growth. Rudeus doesn't try to minimize the harm that Roxy had inflicted onto Pax, but encourages her to learn from her mistakes and to think of all the future students she may help, students such as himself. From the next day on, Roxy regained her vitality.

Ginger meets up with the group in the capital city. Ginger asks what Zanoba's plans are, going forward. Zanoba states that he plans to go back to Sharia. Ginger is happy to hear this. Zanoba indicates that he will renounce his position as part of the royal family. Ginger, however, still plans to continue to serve Zanoba, to fulfill her promise to Zanoba's mother. She doesn't care that Zanoba will no longer be royalty. Zanoba is reluctant, but Ginger continues to insist. Zanoba agrees for Ginger to continue to follow him.

Chapter 12 : Zanoba’s Chosen Path

Zanoba reflects to himself how in the past, although he loved dolls, he disliked humans. It was only until he met Rudeus that he discovered that he no longer disliked all human beings. A major turning point for him was when Julie entered his life. He initially saw Julie as an annoyance. However, as he cares about creating dolls, he took the time to instruct Julie on the art of doll-making. Before he realized it, he no longer saw Julie as an annoyance and grew attached to her. Similarly, before coming to Sharia, he used to see Ginger as a nuisance who would only scold him. When they reunited, he no longer saw her as a nuisance, despite her nagging being unchanged. In the past, Zanoba didn't understand Nanahoshi and her obsession with trying to return to her homeland. Zanoba couldn't relate to this, as he didn't have good memories of Shirone. But this slowly changed, as he slowly found himself longing for his home. So, when he was summoned by Pax, he immediately decided to go home to defend his country. After their victory at Fort Karon, Zanoba felt ready to return to Sharia, but a part of him still wanted to stay in Shirone. So, he lied about wanting to help Pax, as his brother. But after Pax's death, he had a flashback of when he and Pax were young, and how Zanoba ignored the ten year old Pax during a party. Zanoba regrets not speaking to Pax at that time.

Zanoba, Roxy, and Rudeus set off to return to Sharia. They go to the teleportation magic circle which brings them to Sky Castle. Zanoba and Rudeus greet Perugius and give an update on the events that occurred in Shirone. Perugius admonishes Zanoba for thinking of binding himself to a single country. He is happy to hear that Zanoba had renounced his royal status. Rudeus updates Nanahoshi as well.

They return to Sharia. Rudeus goes to meet Orsted to give him a report as well. Rudeus muses that will need to report his failure, in that he allowed Pax to die, who was an important player in Orsted's plans for the future. Zanoba wants to meet Orsted as well, to give thanks for the magic armor that saved him with his fight with Randolph and to apologize for its destruction. Rudeus enters the office and meets Orsted. He sees that Orsted is wearing a solid black face mask, which startles him. Cliff has produced a new revision of the mask. Rudeus reports on the events in Shirone. He confesses to Orsted that he failed to prevent Pax's death. Orsted postulates that the King of King Dragon Realm, Leonard Kingdragon was an apostle of Hitogami, and that the warlord Jade or a Shirone kingdom general was also an apostle. By manipulating these people, Hitogami cornered Pax and drove him to suicide. Hitogami likely manipulated the King Dragon Realm's King to assist Pax with claiming the throne, providing him the Death God, and putting the country in a good position, and then manipulated Jade to orchestrate Pax's failure. Rudeus apologizes for his failure. Orsted acknowledges he made a mistake as well. After killing Leonard Kingdragon, he acknowledges he should have went to Shirone kingdom. Rudeus wonders if someone could substitute for Pax in turning Shirone into a republic, but Orsted states there is no substitute.

Zanoba, who was standing behind Rudeus, expresses his gratitude to Orsted. Rudeus hadn't noticed Zanoba before now, but deduces that Orsted must have sensed Zanoba's approach, since he is wearing the black mask made by Cliff, to suppress his curse. Zanoba wonders if Orsted was trying to help Pax. Orsted reveals that he wasn't necessarily trying to help Pax, but rather he needed a man who would have been born in the country Pax would have created. Zanoba asks Orsted to explain. Orsted explains that Pax would turn Shirone into a Republic. After becoming a republic, Bolt Macedonias, a former slave trader rises to power and is given an important post by Pax. From his descendants, the Demon God Laplace is born. Now that Pax has died, Orsted no longer knows where Laplace will be born. Rudeus wonders if they can recreate various events to trigger Laplace's rebirth, but Orsted states that these ideas are useless as he has tried them before. Orsted states that Laplace must be killed in order to reach Hitogami. But while he can kill Laplace, this will consume too much of his magic power before his fight with Hitogami. He is near the end of his loop, before he is forcefully reincarnated, and so he doesn't have enough time after killing Laplace for his magic power to replenish. Orsted announces that this loop is a failure. Zanoba suggests that this loop may not actually be a failure yet. He suggests that they start gathering an army that can defeat Laplace, so that Orsted can save his magic power. Laplace won't revive for approximately another 80 years, so they have time to gather allies. Zanoba wants revenge on Hitogami, who killed his brother, Pax. Zanoba asks if Orsted would accept him as another subordinate. Rudeus supports Zanoba's idea. Orsted accepts Zanoba's plan to gather allies and accepts him as another subordinate.

Rudeus ruminates on his recent failure. He wants to make sure that his actions are advancing Orsted's cause, and not a detriment. Rudeus wonders that if his current self fails Orsted on this loop, would his self in future loops also be fooled by Hitogami, causing him to be killed by Orsted. Rudeus wonders if Orsted's kindness towards him is part of a cold calculation to scope him out for subsequent loops.

Chapter 13 : It’s All Right to Be Happy

Rudeus heads back to his home. Zanoba goes there as well to pick up Julie. At the home, Rudeus sees Eris practicing her sword swings. He worries that she is overexerting herself as a pregnant lady. Eris tells Rudeus that she actually gave birth to a baby boy ten days ago. Rudeus has mixed feelings about this; while happy that Eris gave birth to a healthy baby boy, he is disappointed that he missed the delivery. Julie and Zanoba have a happy and emotional reunion, and then leave. Rudeus has a happy and emotional reunion with the rest of his family. He meets his newborn son, Arus. To his whole family, Rudeus tells them about Hitogami and how he and Orsted are fighting Hitogami. He tells his family that Lara might be the savior, why he cooperates with Orsted, and other details. The whole family nods in support. Rudeus feels refreshed, having revealed one of his secrets. The only secret Rudeus now holds is that he is reincarnated from another world.

Rudeus reviews in his mind all the information related to Hitogami so far. In order to reach Hitogami, one must collect eh five treasures held by each of the five Dragon Generals. There is the Mad Chaos Dragon (already dead), Holy Dragon Emperor Szilard (possibly dead), Dark Dragon King Maxwell (possibly dead), Armored Dragon King Perugius, and Demon Dragon King Laplace (who is yet to reincarnate). The resurrection of Laplace is essential in order to get the five treasures. Laplace will be born as a baby. Orsted had originally planned to effortless kill Laplace as a baby. But now that Pax is dead and timeline is changed, Laplace will resurrect in an unknown location. From there, Laplace will gather followers to wage war on humanity. Although Orsted can kill Laplace, this would be tiring for him, which would negatively impact his ability to subsequently fight Hitogami. Therefore, Orsted announced that the current loop is a failure. However, Rudeus did not get the sense that Orsted had completely given up. Rudeus speculates that Orsted may have predicted the current situation. Orsted orchestrated Ariel to become king so that various sequence of events would allow Asura kingdom to survive a crisis 100 years into the future. This crisis is likely the war with the reincarnated Laplace. Rudeus speculates that Orsted planned for the Kingdom of Asura's forces to aid him in fighting Laplace's forces, therefore limiting Orsted's need for magic consumption. Another possibility is Rudeus's existence has disturbed the timeline such that Laplace's rebirth could not be predicted regardless.

From this point on, they will be slightly diverging from the history which Orsted knows. Laplace will be reincarnated in an unknown location. War will occur. If Laplace isn't defeated, Orsted can't reach Hitogami. Hitogami can't be defeated by an Orsted who has been worn down by his fight with Laplace. So, they will follow Zanoba's proposal. Rudeus will gather allies in preparation for a war which will take place in 80 to 100 years. Rudeus acknowledges, he'll likely die before the battle takes place. He will organize the Anti-Hitogami faction, gathering people to defeat Laplace and support Orsted.

Extra Chapter: The Death God and the Gluttonous Prince

In the imperial villa of the King Dragon Realm, Pax is telling Benedict a story about how he single-handedly took over a slave trading ring… or rather, about how his bodyguards did the work for him. Pax feels somewhat guilty about exaggerating his past deeds, but Benedict still thinks his stories are incredible regardless of their authenticity. Given that both of their reputations are the lowest of the low in the imperial villa, nobody else is willing to talk to them, so they have turned to each other for support. However, Pax’s diligence to his body training and studies is slowly but surely improving his image among the others. On their way to Pax’s room, the two smell a bizarre, pungent odor that ever so slightly stimulates their appetites. Going to the training grounds to investigate, the sight that awaits them seems to be straight out of a painting—a skeleton (Randolph) stirring a large pot, with five guards lined up as if awaiting their last meal. Pax demands to know what is going on, and the guards tell him: they didn’t properly secure their general’s saddle, and he fell off his horse during a training exercise. The general, in all his magnanimity, let them go without a punishment, and instead had Randolph treat them to a meal. Among the soldiers, there are rumors that Randolph is an assassin directly serving the general, doing his dirty work by taking out major political enemies. They are convinced that they are about to be executed by poisoning and start begging Pax to save them. While Randolph denies that he has any intention of killing the soldiers, Benedict gives Pax a pleading look, and Pax demands that Randolph serve him a portion first. He predicts that Randolph will back down since poisoning a prince would create an international incident, but Randolph eagerly begins ladling out a serving for him. Insulted, Pax refuses to back down and silently vows to send the King Dragon Realm into chaos from the grave. Randolph places a bowl of purple stew in front of Pax, whose sensory cortex is screaming that the substance in front of him is NOT MEANT TO BE EATEN. Summoning his resolve, Pax swallows a chunk of meat… and finds that it is surprisingly tasty. His tongue starts to go numb, and Pax laments that while he didn’t accomplish anything meaningful in his short life, at least his final act could be something to be proud of. Turning defiant, Pax orders Randolph to give him seconds, claiming that the stew would be wasted on the soldiers’ unrefined taste buds. The soldiers frantically leave the area while giving Pax grateful looks. Benedict also asks for a bowl of stew, and Pax accepts that she probably wouldn’t be able to survive the loneliness that would ensue after he is gone. The two of them finish the entire pot (LN illustration), upon which Pax asks Randolph when the effects will kick in. Randolph responds that they would take effect very soon, and Pax feels as if he is at peace—dying under a blue sky after eating a delicious meal wouldn’t be so bad. Randolph reveals his secret ingredient: sanshoku seeds, which are purple in color, cause tongue numbness, and have a strong sedative effect—perfect for dispelling feelings of frustration, anxiety, or depression. Although Randolph finds it unfortunate that he was unable to help the soldiers relax, he is elated that Pax enjoyed his food and offers to treat him to another meal. Pax agrees, and leaves the area with Benedict.

The flashback ends. Pax and Randolph are looking out over the Shirone Kingdom from the royal castle. Smoke is rising from fires lit all throughout the city, and people are gathering en masse below. Pax tells Randolph that he really thought that he was going to die back then, and Randolph responds that he would rather that Pax had taken that comment to the grave. The two reflect on how that was the beginning of their friendship and how the majority of people gathering below have not accepted Pax as their ruler. Despite becoming king, his only true allies are Benedict and Randolph. Pax entrusts Randolph with teaching his child swordsmanship and cooking in the event that he dies—to give Pax Jr. the best education possible, and to praise him, for Pax knows firsthand the pain of one’s efforts not being acknowledged. Randolph, sensing that Pax intends to kill himself, accepts Pax’s request. While he may not be a true “god of death / shinigami (死神)”, his inherited title is “Death(死) God(神)”, and the Death God before him would always honor a dying person’s last words. As Pax disappears into his bedroom, Randolph closes his eyes, whispering that he would much prefer that Pax didn’t die.