Chapter 1: Wind Port

Rudeus
 celebrated his 11th birthday a couple days ago, and the first thing they do once they arrive at
Wind Port
 is stop by the Adventurer's Guild. There, after
Eris
 gets in a brief scuffle, they learn about their nicknames. "Mad Dog" Eris, "Guard Dog"
Ruijerd
, and "Kennel Master" Rujerd who is Rudeus but his name has been messed up and he has a negative image associated with him, while Ruijerd is rumored to be kind hearted.

The group then heads to the port checkpoint, only to discover that in order to cross the border to the
Millis Continent
 with a
Superd
, they would need to pay 200 green ore coins, a massive sum that would take over a year to earn. Rudeus thinks that he could sell his staff or hire a smuggler as alternatives, but doesn't like any of those three options.

That night he gets more advice from the
Man-God
, which is to buy some food at a street stall and search the alleyways by himself. He agrees right away to follow this advice as he doesn't think he has any other better options.

Chapter 2: Missed Connections, the Prequel

After following the Man-God's advice to the letter, Rudeus ends up meeting
Kishirika Kishirisu
, and in exchange for the food he gave her, she gives him a
Demon Eye
. After explaining six different types he's able to pick from, Rudeus chooses the
Eye of Foresight
, which allows him to see the different branches of possible things that can happen a couple seconds in the future.

Chapter 3: Missed Connections, the Sequel

Realizing that he did exactly what the Man-God wanted him to made him want to tear out his demon eye and crush it, since he still doesn't think the Man-God is someone he should trust, but regardless he returned back to the inn they were staying at. After a week he was able to master the demon eye, and was able to see 1-3 seconds in the future depending on how much mana he used, as well as see completely normally if he wished. While he was doing that, Eris was training with Ruijerd all day.

After announcing that he was able to control his Eye of Foresight, Ruijerd suggested that he have a duel with Eris, so they could both see the results of their training. The result of that battle was Rudeus' complete win. He was able to see exactly what Eris was going to do, and even without using his magic he countered her and won. In his cocky state he even dueled against Ruijerd in a bare handed fight, but lost completely after the first exchange after seeing multiple possible futures and not knowing how to react.

That night Rudeus decides to sell his staff to earn enough for the boat's fee to the Millis Continent, but as he walks outside Ruijerd confronts him and tells him he is okay with the smuggling plan as it would lead to a better outcome. After they both agree on that, a man approaches them saying that he just so happens to be a smuggler,
Gallus Cleaner
. In exchange for smuggling Ruijerd, once they arrive in Millis, the group would set the other slaves being smuggled free since Gallus thinks they're more trouble than their worth, while his comrades disagree.

Side Story: Missed Connections, Extra Story

Roxy
 arrived at Wind Port along with
Elinaline Dragonroad
, a female elven tank, and
Talhand
, a male dwarven magician, both of whom were members of
Fangs of the Black Wolf
, the same adventuring party that
Paul
 and
Zenith
 were part of before they settled down in the Fittoa Region. The three just happened to meet on their way towards the Demon Continent are grouped up since it would be safer to travel together, since Elinalise and Talhand saw Paul's letter about helping search for his missing family members and agreed to help.

While trying to gather information on any who were teleported to the Demon Continent from the Displacement Incident, Roxy also sees Eris and Ruijerd sparring out on the beach, the same week that Rudeus was inside his inn learning to control his Demon Eye. But since she had never met the two before she quickly left after getting scared by Ruijerd's gaze and the group of three quickly left Wind Port to continue searching the entire Demon Continent, just as Rudeus and his group headed to the Millis Continent.

Chapter 4: The Sage on Board

Eris and Rudeus boarded the ship that would take them to the Millis Continent after handing Ruijerd over to the smugglers that would sneak him through. Through the journey Rudeus got to witness an S ranked party guard the ship from a giant octopus monster, thinking to himself that him, Eris, and Ruijerd were individually much stronger than each member of that party, but they achieved that rank through their teamwork, which Dead End was severely lacking. Eris also gets extremely seasick, with Rudeus needing to constantly cast heal on her to ease her pain. After a few more days they eventually arrived at the city of
Zant Port
 on the Millis Continent.

Chapter 5: The Demon in the Warehouse

After taking residence in a less than savory inn, the rest of them being booked for the three month long rainy season that would soon start preventing any travel, Rudeus headed towards the warehouse that was housing Ruijerd to pick him up as well as set the other slaves there free, as per his agreement with Gallus.

Rudeus arrived at the warehouse and after a long walk through multiple secret passageways and doors he arrived at the room where Ruijerd was being held. After a quick exchange about where the slaves were being kept, Ruijerd tells Rudeus that he will kill all of the guards and smugglers while Rudeus can save the seven beastfolk children who are the slaves they are supposed to set free.

Chapter 6: The Beastfolk Children

As Ruijerd quickly dispatched with all the guards, Rudeus found the group of seven children and healed their numerous wounds before leaving the warehouse. Just as they were leaving one of the seven said that there was a dog being held captive that also needed to be saved, so Rudeus went back to do that while Ruijerd led the children to the outskirts of the city where Rudeus would meet back up with them.

After rescuing the dog from a magic circle, Rudeus was then incapacitated by a group of beastmen who found the smugglers warehouse using a voice attack thinking that Rudeus was one of the kidnappers. It turns out the dog was also the beatsmen's
Sacred Beast
 Rudeus was then taken back to the beastfolk village as a criminal, while one of the other beastmen found Ruijerd and the kidnapped children. Through their conversation the beastmen learned that Rudeus was Ruijerd companion, and apologized for taking him into custody, but Ruijerd knew that Rudeus would be fine and prioritized returning the children to their parents and getting Eris before setting Rudeus free.

Chapter 7: Free Apartment

Five days had passed, with Rudeus being locked in a wooden cell the entire time. He could have easily escaped but he was waiting for Ruijerd to come back and for him to be absolved of his crimes. However on that day another person was thrown into the cell with him, a man named
Geese
. Seven days had now gone by, still with no word from Ruijerd and no sign of being let out of the cell. As Rudeus was getting more and more anxious and ready to escape on his own, he suddenly sees that the forest was on fire.

Chapter 8: Fire Emergency

After escaping from the cell, Rudeus and Geese see the entire village up in flames along with humans in battle gear chasing the beastfolk down, killing the adults, and kidnapping the children. Rudeus decides to help them even though they falsely imprisoned him for a whole week, summoning massive clouds above the forest to create a heavy downpour and put out the fires. Once the attackers noticed Rudeus doing this they started rushing towards him, but were quickly knocked out with his Stone Canon.

After clearing away the smoke the beastmen were able to fight much better and began to start pressing the human back. Along with Rudeus' help they continued slaughtering the attackers and rescuing the children who had been kidnapped, even saving the women who had stood guard by Rudeus' cell for the past week, with a look of great surprise on her face. Eventually the beastmen warrior and Rudeus ran into Gallus, who had planned this whole thing from the start. After he leaked the information about the warehouse with the kidnapped children, he planned for Rudeus and Ruijerd to distract the beastmen warrior who went to save the children, and him and his men would swoop in the village and kidnap the rest of the children while all the warriors were gone.

After Rudeus refused Gallus' offer to join him, Gallus quickly kills three beastmen warriors that attacked him all at once, leaving Rudeus worried if he can take on Gallus, who is Saint ranked in the North God Style. Just as Gallus started to take his leave since Rudeus had no plans to attack him, the Sacred Beast attacked him, giving Rudeus an opportunity to save the hostage and square off against Gallus with the Sacred Beast at his side. Gallus launched multiple fierce attacks against Rudeus, with Rudeus forced to defend the entire time with no chance to counter attack. Thankfully Geese threw a powder filled bag at Gallus flustering him and giving Rudeus enough time to cast explosion and knock Gallus out.

We then learn that the plan to kidnap the beastfolk was even more well planned and complicated with attacks being carried out against all the villages simultaneously, and the kidnappers managing to kidnap 50 children. They were just about to sail off when Ruijerd and the other beastfolk warriors who had not returned yet attacked them and saved the children. This is what was going on while Rudeus was in the cell for a week. Gallus was then handed to the Zant Port officials, and all the rescued children were returned to there parents.

Chapter 9: Slow Life in the Doldia Village

As thanks for saving the children of Doldia village, the village elder Gustav invited Rudeus, Eris, and Ruijerd to spend the rainy season with them since travel is nearly impossible. Through some conversation Eris learns that Ghislaine was born in this village, however she was extremely violent and someone unworthy of being respected, completely opposite from her current self. Rudeus tried to learn the unique beastfolk voice magic that was used against him to render him unconscious, but he was only able to do a much weaker version since it requires the specialized vocal chords the beastfolk posses. Ruijerd became great friends with Gustav, exchanging stories with him from "back in the day", and Eris befriended two of the younger beastfolk children. As the relatively peaceful days went by, three months passed and the rainy season ended.

Chapter 10: The Holy Sword Highway

The trio then head off for the capital of Millis, along with Geese who sweet talked his way into being able to join. They traveled along the Holy Sword Highway, which was a road that went straight through the Great Forest, and since it contained mana monsters would never go near it. Along the way Eris asked Geese to teach her how to cook, but he recounted a tale of how he taught
a women
 in his previous adventurer's party how to cook, and she used that to convince one of
the guy
s in that party to marry her, resulting in the party splitting up and Geese giving up being an Adventurer.

Rudeus also learns about the Seven Great Powers, which are the seven strongest warriors in the world, engraved on magic stones throughout the world that automatically update. In order they are the Technique God,
Dragon God
, Fighting God,
Demon God
,
Death God
,
Sword God
, and North God, with the top three all being missing, and the Demon God Laplace being sealed away after the
Third Human-Demon War
.

After a little over a month of traveling, the group finally exited the Great Forest and once again entered the domain of men.

Extra Chapter: Guardian Fitz

Fitz once again has a dream about what happened to them during the Displacement Incident, which was suddenly being teleported thousands of feet in the air, and barely surviving using all the magic they could muster and thanks to the teachings of their master who taught them about some of the fundamental principles of nature. This was the same person who fell from the sky and helped save
Ariel Anemoi Asura
 (in
the extra chapter of the previous volume
), causing Ariel to employ Fitz in Derricks place, since Derrick passed away and Fitz was more than quality being at least intermediate tier in all attack magic schools and being able to cast spells without chanting.

Ariel also started fulfilling Derrick's wish of her becoming Queen of Asura, as she was currently bolstering her allies behind the scenes, planning for a day 10-20 years in the future when those allies would have been planted in positions of power, enough to solidify her claim as Queen. That night one of the highest ranking nobles in all of Asura,
Minister Darius
, as well as the first Price, Grabel, were discussing Ariel's recent movements and decided that it was been to have her assassinated. Thankfully Fitz was able to stop this assassination attempt, nearly losing his life to poison but his silent casting of Detoxification magic saved him. The attempts at Ariel's life continued, forcing her to plan her escape from the royal palace under the guise of studying abroad.