Chapter 1: The Con Artist Who Claimed to Be a God

Rudeus
 wakes up while moving at at an incredible speed through the sky. After concentrating his mana he starts slowing down and eventually lands, then immediately loses consciousness.

He "wakes up", but realizes he's dreaming, and meets a man calling himself the
Man God
 in this dream. Rudeus immediately distrusts him, but the Man-God still gives him some advice. The Man-God says to rely on the person Rudeus will meet when he wakes up, and to do what he can to help him. He also learns that he is currently in the
Demon Continent
, which is a much harsher environment than his
original home
 and is very difficult to survive in.

Chapter 2: The Superd

Rudeus wakes up and meets
Ruijerd Superdia
, one of the Superd who
Roxy
 told him to avoid at all costs, but quickly realizes he is not nearly as fearsome as the stories portrayed him to be. Through his conversation he learns he truly is in the northeast corner of the Demon Continent, about as far away from Fittoa as one could be. Ruijerd promises to return him and
Eris
 back home. Once Eris wakes up she starts crying and trying to run away from Ruijerd, but her legs give out and she falls down, a common reaction according to Ruijerd. Rudeus is able to comfort her and make her realize Ruijerd is someone they should become friends with, and she eventually agrees.

Chapter 3: A Master’s Secrets

The next day Ruijerd leads Rudeus and Eris to the village he was staying at, a journey of less than a mile that took 3 hours due to Ruijerd stopping the group every 15 minutes to kill a group of monsters. The village turned out to be the Migurdia tribes village, the hometown of Roxy and thanks to the pendant she gave Rudeus they were cleared of their initial suspicions and allowed to enter the village, meeting Roxy's father in the process.

Chapter 4: The Foundations of Trust

Meeting with the village elder, Rudeus tells him who they are and how they ended up there, prompting Ruijerd to once again promise his assistance in getting Rudeus and Eris back home. This leads to Ruijerd, who is over 500 years old, telling the story of his people and how

they were an elite group of soldiers under Laplace during the Third Great Human-Demon War. During this war Ruijerd was his people's leader and forced his men to use the Devil Spears given by Laplace which greatly enhanced all their combat abilities making them nearly invincible, at the cost of corrupting their souls and turning them into the battle crazed maniacs of the stories who would kill friend, foe, women, and children without hesitation. After being tricked into attacking their own village, with Ruijerd killing his own wife and son but in the process having his Devil Spear broken by his son, he woke up from his battle crazed state. He did the same for the rest of his comrades, but the damage had already been done. The Superd race was then hunted down and persecuted for their crimes, with Ruijerd currently being unsure if he is the last of his people, or if they have a secret village somewhere.

After hearing the story, Rudeus decided to help Ruijerd clear the name of his people, to Ruijerds great surprise. This would allow Ruijerd to help Rudeus and Eris while on the road, and for Rudeus to help Ruijerd while they were in cities, since he was feared to the point of being unable to enter cities currently. This felt like the beginning of a good relationship to Rudeus, but he was a little anxious that he was doing exactly what the Man-God wanted him to.

Chapter 5: Three Days to the Nearest Town

The group of 3 get on their way towards heading back to the Fittoa region, and before leaving Roxy's mother and father gift a short sword and some Demon Continent money to the group. As they started the 3 day journey towards the nearest town Rudeus convinces Ruijerd to teach them basic survival and combat skills so that Rudeus and Eris could survive on their own if it came to that. Rudeus completely destroys a monster with a single shot, successfully slaying his first monster, and over the course of the night the group fights several different monsters including
stone treants
, a giant tortoise, an acid wolf, and a group of pax coyotes.

Over the course of those 3 days Rudeus started to better define the positions of each of the 3 members of the group with Eris as the frontline attacker, Rudeus as the backline supporter casting spells when necessary, and Ruijerd in a flex position to cover any blind spots. They start accumulating their experiences and Ruijerd also teaches Eris about maintaining her weapon. He also informs the group that the Superds spears are a part of their body growing up, and once they reach a certain age they harden and fall off, which is why the Superd as so attached to them.

Chapter 6: Infiltration and Impersonation

The trio finally arrive at their first Demon Continent city,
Rikarisu
, which is one of the three largest settlements on the continent. After creating a stone helmet for Ruijerd as a disguise, the group entered the city and headed to some market stalls to buy some initial supplies. Rudeus buys some dye for Ruijerd's hair and turns it blue, with the cover story that he is actually one of the Migurd but is pretending to be a Superd, in an effort to decrease any suspicions of him while at the same time hopefully spreading rumors that the Superd aren't as dangerous as they seem. He also bought a cloak with cat ears for Eris which to Rudeus' surprise she immediately liked.

Chapter 7: The Adventurers’ Guild

The next stop was the
Adventurers' Guild
 where the group of three registered as rank F adventurers and created a party with the name "Dead End" the name associated with the "bloodthirsty killing machine" Ruijerd. Before registering they announced to everyone in the building that Ruijerd was in fact a Superd, but because of the blue dyed hair everyone burst out laughing and did not believe it. After registering, the group narrowly avoided a conflict with another group of adventurers after they tried to trip Rudeus and the rest. Another bout of laughing ensued when the group left without taking on a single job.

Chapter 8: The Adventurers’ Inn

As it was getting dark the group decided to head towards an inn, and chose a newbie-adventurer friendly one. Inside the group met another newbie group of three called the
Tokurabu Village Toughs
 who tried hitting on Eris and got beat up in the process. After some worrying about the groups budget, as they only had about enough to last 2 weeks, and they wouldn't earn much through adventuring until they advanced their party's rank, Rudeus fell asleep. In his dream he meets the Man-God again who tells him to accept the quest to find a lost pet at the adventurer's guild.

Rudeus wakes back up in the middle of the night to see Eris staring out of their room's window. He goes over and eases her anxiety about getting back home safely, realizing that he was not the only one feeling such things.

Chapter 9: The First Job: The Value of a Life

After accepting the lost pet job, the trio find themselves in an underground room filled with dozens of "lost" pets, who had actually been captured by another
group of three
 in order to profit off the eventual Adventurers' Guild quests that would be posted to find them. The trio capture and handcuff the petnappers, and as Rudeus began interrogating one of them he kicked hard enough to fly across the room resulting in Ruijerd instantly slicing his throat with his spear, killing him instantly.

This event left Rudeus very shaken up, to the point of even being afraid of Ruijerd. Because of that Rudeus comes up with a whole speech about why Ruijerd should not kill people anymore no matter what, in order to disprove the claims that the Superd are a group of bloodthirsty killers. After some back and forth and Rudeus essentially pleading with him, Ruijerd hesitantly agrees.

Chapter 10: The First Job Completed

Then Rudeus goes on to interrogate the other two remaining petnappers, and learns about their operation. After some internal debate about what to do with them and whether he should just off them to prevent any rumors from spreading, Rudeus comes up with the idea to have the two, who are D rank adventurers and able to advance to C rank, advance to C rank and start taking on C or even B rank monster hunting quests, while Dead End (Rudeus' party) will accept their E rank quests, and the two groups will swap. This allows Dead End to slowly rank up while earning money equivalent to B and C rank quests. Ruijerd is strongly opposed to this plan as he does not want to team up with those he deems as evil, but thanks to Eris' shouting and explaining that this is for Ruijerd's own benefit and that Rudeus is smart enough to come up with good plans, he reluctantly agrees.

Afterwards the trio return to the client whose pet was lost, and return it, causing the little girl whose pet it was to become extremely happy. They then return to the Adventurers' Guild to collect their reward and successfully mark the quest as complete. One of the men who had previously laughed at Ruijerd for "pretending" to be a Superd comes up and has some small talk with the group, eventually offering his help as a rank C adventurer if they ever needed it, since he doesn't mind helping newbies, a man with horse head named
Nokopara
.

Chapter 11: A Smooth Start

The next morning Rudeus meets up with Vizquel and Jalil, whose party name is P Hunter, and were the two adventurers who were running the petnapping scam, and exchanged their first set of quests. The job Rudeus ended up picking out for themselves was to slay Pax Coyotes, and by killing a few and using the scent of their blood to attract more, they were able to kill over 100 in a couple of hours. And in only three days Dead End was promoted to rank E, thanks to P Hunter performing the lower ranked jobs for them.

After a few days of taking on these jobs the group started to earn enough money for them to upgrade their gear. Eris got a full set of light armor including a breast plate and some other small protective pieces, and Rudeus got a robe made from the hide of a Mackey Rat which offers some protection against stabbing weapons due to how tough it is. While they were purchasing these items Ruijerd was spying on P Hunter to see how they were performing their side of things, and they were approaching even F ranked jobs with a good attitude and diligence, making sure to mention and praise Dead End Ruijerd at the end of each job.

Chapter 12: Children and Warriors

After another 3 weeks Dead End hit D rank, but Rudeus wanted to continue milking the relationship with P Hunter as that allowed him to take on a B rank quest to slay a mysterious snake type monster in the
Petrified Forest
 a days journey away from Rikarisu. After arriving, Rudeus finds two other adventurer parties already there on similar jobs. The rank D Tokurabu Village Toughs, who they met earlier, as well as the rank B
Super Blazers
. The three groups decide that whoever slays the monster first gets the reward, but Ruijerd realizes that the three kids making up the Tokurabu Village Toughs are not nearly strong enough to survive in the petrified forest due to it being the home of many rank B monsters, and decides that they should tail that group to ensure their safety since Ruijerd always does what he can to protect children.

After a short while the Tokurabu Village Toughs run into an Executioner, the zombified remains of an adventurer, a rank B monster. They started running away from the Executioner, only to run into a group of rank B Almond Anacondas, and Ruijerd wants to rush in to help them immediately, but Rudeus holds him back to wait for the perfect moment to save them to have them be as grateful as possible to Dead End. However this backfires and one of the Tokurabu Village Toughs gets cleaved in half by the Executioner. This prompts Ruijerd to act to guarantee the safety of the other two, and in a matter of moments Ruijerd and Eris kill the group of Anacondas and Rudeus summons a large rock to crush the Executioner. After a heated exchange of words with Ruijerd being furious at Rudeus for stopping him and allowing one of the three children to be killed, and Rudeus feeling extremely guilty about his greed leading to that death, the leader of Tokurabu Village Toughs stands up for himself and says that he and his group were prepared to die the moment they accepted the quest, and the fault lies solely on them. This wraps up the discussion with Rudeus still feeling extremely guilty and making a note that he needs to think about his actions to make sure he doesn't make a similar mistake in the future.

Rudeus' group then Tokurabu Village Toughs to the entrance of the forest so they can bring their fallen comrade back home, and then they reenter the forest and find the mysterious snake monster, along with the six corpses of the Super Blazers. It turned out to be a Red-Hood Cobra, a rank A  massive snake like monster. Ruijerd says that he is more than capable of defeating the monster on his own, settling the debate of whether they should fight it or not. Rudeus uses his tandard opening move of using Stone Cannon, however the cobra was able to dodge it, but thanks to the endless slashes from Eris and Ruijerd the cobra grew tired and after multiple missed shots one of his Stone Cannon's finally landed and killed the cobra.

Chapter 13: Failure, Chaos, and Resolve

After returning to the Guild to complete their quests, they once again ran into Nokopara, who had realized the two parties were exchanging quests, which is against Guild rules and could get them banned from accepting all quests on the Demon Continent. He decides to black mail them to give him some money each month to keep him from telling the Guild, and after talking to the remaining members of the Tokurabu Village Toughs, he had proof that Rudeus, Eris, and Ruijerd, a D ranked party, were taking on a rank B quest while P Hunter was inside the city taking on a much lower ranked one.

After some internal debate of what to do, Rudeus decides to flood the entire city of Rikarisu, since it was built into a crater, but right as he starts casting the spell Ruijerd washes out the dye from his hair, reavealing that he truly is one of the Superd. After doing so he threatens Nokopara forcing him to not reveal that the group broke the Guild's rules, and then gets chased out of the city by the guards. Rudeus and Eris then collected their belongings from the inn and purchase the equivalent of a horse drawn carriage on the Demon Continent, a large lizard like creature, before leaving the city.

The two met up with Ruijerd outside the city, and Rudeus had a heart to heart conversation with him, where he doubled his resolve to help Ruijerd restore his people's reputation, and Ruijerd truly recognizes Rudeus as a warrior and trusts him. And the next morning they see that Ruijerd shaved his head, since his green hair was one of the most notable features about him and something people feared the most.

Chapter 14: The Beginning of Our Journey

As the group moves towards the next city, Rudeus calls a group meeting to discuss the plans moving forward. He mentions that while he is the group leader, the other two should come forward with any ideas they have to improve the group overall, and they decide the best course of action for now is to head towards Wind Port, the southernmost city of the Demon Continent where they can travel by boat to the Millis Continent, hike across there, and there travel by boat again to reach the Central Continent.

As the group travels, Eris starts learning the Demon God tongue, and Ruijerd starts to teach her more about the sword. They would have mock fights ending with her being sprawled on the ground with a spear at her neck. Rudeus attempted to participate too, but after a few rounds he realized that he wasn't learning much, while Eris had likely become better than Paul at this point. Rudeus also engages in a full on mock battle against Ruijerd, earning much praise from him, but because he started at close range he lost badly.

Over the course of a year the group steadily made their way towards Wind Port, and managed to reach rank A in the process. As they got closer, they also started encountering human warrior who came to the Demon Continent to train and increase their strength. All of whom who challenged Ruijerd to a duel lost handily. Even after revealing his name and identity some would continue to be respectful and Ruijerd would tell the tale of his people to them, while they would have looks of astonishment the entire time.

Extra Chapter: The Princess of Asura and the Angel

Ariel Anemoi Asura
, the second princess of the
Kingdom of Asura
, and
Luke Notos Greyrat
, her guardian knight and second son of the Greyrat family, were having their usual tea time in one of the palace gardens.
Derrick Redbat
, an Advanced rank magician, was also one of Ariel's guards, and desperately wanted her to attempt to ascend the throne and become Queen of Asura. Ariel herself thought this was a foolish path of action as she was fourth in line for the throne, and her two older brother had many more connections than her and were desperately fighting for the throne. However due to the cunning and suspicious nature of all nobles in Asura and Ariel's popularity with the common folk, nobles from the
first prince
's faction wanted to make an attempt at her life. Derrick was just returning to his guard duty when he suddenly finds a Terminator Boar, a rank D monster charging towards her Ariel, and assumed this to be part of their plot after overhearing they wanted to do so, however this event actually occurred to the Fittoa Displacement Incident teleported the monster here by pure chance. He gave his life protecting Ariel, and in his final words begged her to take the throne and make Asura into a better country, causing her to look at him in a new light. Luke however was not enough to slay the Boar on his own, but thankfully Derrick's prayers were answered and a white haired angel falls from the sky blasting the boar to pieces as his consciousness fades and he passes away.