Note: The following article is under construction

Chapter 1: Route Selection

Rudeus
 turned 12 as he arrived in the city of East Port in the King Dragon Realm, and after choosing an inn he held a group meeting to discuss which route they would take to get the the
Asura Kingdom
 in the northern region of the Central Continent. After some discussion they chose the safest route which should take about 10 months due to the other alternatives being much more dangerous and likely not saving any time.

That night Rudeus meets with the
Man God
 in his dreams again, and Rudeus receives more detailed information from the Man God about the location of his still missing family members in exchange for being less hostile towards him in the future. The Man God tells Rudeus to go to the Shirone Kingdom, where he will find both
Lilia
 and
Aisha
 after following some specific actions such as sending a letter and making sure not to use his real name. This also included seeing visions of the future through his Demon Eye, causing him to get extremely nauseous after he woke up. Not only that, but this worried Rudeus greatly, as he thinks the Man God likely gave him the last set of advice so that he would get the Eye of Foresight, allowing him to see these visions from the Man God, making him wonder just how all knowing and powerful this mysterious figure is, and what his true objectives are.

Chapter 2: Rice

The next morning Rudeus tells the group that they will make a stop in the Shirone Kingdom, and Rudeus is thankful that
Eris
 and
Ruijerd
 both agreed so fast without asking any questions. Unfortunately due to some problems with their carriage, the group had to spent an entire week in Wyvern, the capital of the King Dragon Realm which is the third largest country in the world. Amoung the good he saw in the city was rice, which he happily purchased and cooked himself to try to fulfill his dream of eating rice again in this new world. However even after adding a raw egg on top it was still less than a C in terms of taste compared to what he was used to in Japan, and that was being generous.

After leaving Wyvern and along the way to Shirone, Rudeus continued stopped by the Adventurer's Guilds and would use the name Dead End, which would hardly elicit much of a response at all anymore, since the threat of the Superd was nonexistent to the people living on the Central Continent. Rudeus also continued eating the rice produced by the various regions they traveled to, and different versions of a dish similar to Japanese fried chicken, all failing to meet his expectations. And finally after four months of this, the group reached the Shirone Kingdom.

Chapter 3: The Shirone Kingdom

As the group arrives in the capital of Shirone, Latakia, Rudeus starts another team meeting. Thinking about the Man-God's words, he creates fake names for each of them to use while in Shirone and buys supplies to sent
Roxy
 a letter since she was a court magician of the Shirone Kingdom the last time Rudeus wrote to her. After sending the letter he walks into some small alleys, and realizes he's seeing the exact scene the Man God showed him, with his younger sister Aisha being grabbed by two city guards. Rudeus thought that the guards did not look happy performing their duty, but he nonetheless saw Aisha crying and immediately helped her once she asked him for it, using his magic to catapult them into the sky to get away from the soldiers.

Chapter 4: There Is No God

After calming down from the traumatic events she just experienced, Aisha asked Rudues to buy some paper and a pen so she could write a letter to her father. After asking if she could ask anyone else for help, perhaps a brother, she says that she does have a brother, but her mom told her brother was capable of such advanced magic at a young age that she doesn't believe her, and found Rudeus' secret stash of Roxy's panties and thinks of him as a pervert. Rudeus can't blame her for thinking that, and so continues to hide his identity but says that he will help save Lilia.

Aisha tells Rudeus the details of her and Lilia were teleported to Shirone Kingdom's Royal Palace and were arrested, yet no matter how many times they tried to explain the situation they were not let free and were unable to send any letters. Through the conversation Rudeus learns that Aisha is really a natural born talent, and is extremely well spoken, well mannered, and knows a lot of useful information from her rigorous training under Lilia. After exhausting herself she fell asleep and a few hours later Ruijerd and Eris return but were unable to gather much information.

The next day a knight of the seventh price's imperial guard came to the inn Rudeus was staying at to guide him to Roxy. After reaching what he thought was Roxy's room, it turned out to be the seventh prince himself,
Pax Shirone
, and he was led into a trap. After entering the room Rudeus sees Lilia next to Pax, the prince, and then falls into the trapdoor that was set up causing him to be trapped inside a King tier barrier that prevents him from using any magic. Pax explains that he was holding Lilia and Aisha captive to lure Roxy to the palace so that he could then trap her, and force her to be his sex slave.

Pax then leaves Rudeus, but he was able to overhear his conversation with the knight who led Rudeus to the palace, Ginger, and learns that Pax is holding many of his knights families hostage to force them to do whatever he wants, which is why they are still looking for and trying to capture Aisha even when they are actually unwilling to do so, and are even falsifying reports claiming that the man who saved Aisha the previous day was a large brawny man. As Rudeus sits in captivity, he thinks about all the potential mistakes he made when listening to the Man-God's advice, and if things will truly work according to what the Man-God told him.

Chapter 5: The Third Prince

While Rudeus was trying to come up with a way to escape the King tier barrier, with absolutely no luck, the third Prince
Zanoba Shirone
 introduced himself to Rudeus. It turns out that Lilia still had Rudeus secret box containing a pair of Roxy's underwear that he stole, and Zanoba opened that box and noticed that the underwear were the same pair that Roxy was wearing in the statue of her that he bought. Zanoba thought that there must be some connection between Rudeus and the statue, and since he was absolutely obsessed with statues to the point of it being his only joy in life, he pledged his loyalty to Rudeus after discovering that he was indeed the creator of the figurine. Rudeus first order was for Zanoba to help him escape the barrier, causing Zanoba to tell Rudeus that he will be right back.

Chapter 6: A Speedy Resolution

Zanoba, as it turns out, was a Blessed Child. One who had a particular gift setting him apart from normal humans, abnormal strength. The strength to lift a full grown adult man up with just one hand and easily rip off his head even as a child, which he had done many times before giving him the nickname "Head-Ripping Prince". This allowed him to get Pax, bringing him to the room with the barrier with his hand on Pax's head, and threaten to rip his head off if he didn't release Rudeus, all so that he could save Rudeus, the wonderful doll maker. This plan worked wonderfully, and everyone was saved.

Rudeus also learned about how the soldier's families who were held hostage by Pax were rescued by Ruijerd, and that for all the trouble they caused both Pax and Zanoba were to be banished, under the pretext of studying abroad. Pax was sent to be a hostage in the King Dragon Realm, while Zanoba was sent
somewhere else
. And Lilia and Aisha were going to be personally escorted all the way to Paul by the soldiers who families were saved. Rudeus remarked that even though he felt like he was dancing in the palm of the Man-God to a  terrible tune, everything turned out perfect in the end.

Chapter 7: The Birth of My Little Sister, The Maid

At the small town inn, Rudeus and Lilia are sitting while Eris and Aisha talked about Rudeus and his capabilities in magic. Lilia thanks Rudeus for saving her back there in the castle, where he wants to give those gratitude to Ruijerd instead. Lilia asks Rudeus out of concern for Aisha, which he responds that she is exceptional at best. Lilia considers on letting Aisha go along with him but he does not want to as she is too young and she is too inexperienced. Lilia gives Rudeus the pendant given by Slyphy for his 10th birthday and Roxy's panties in the chest box, which Rudeus is thankful for. She hugged Rudeus behind her back, he tells her about her chest padded from his back while feeling smothered. Lilia says that he never changed at all with a small laugh she had.

Before Rudeus and his party departs, Aisha asked Rudeus a favor if he could take her along but Rudeus rejects her despite she wants go with him. Rudeus gives Aisha his forehead protector as a remembrance of him. Aisha talks about men wanting her body and making children to which Rudeus shrugs her off and tells her not to talk about those stuff. As she asks Rudeus about not mad at her for calling him a pervert, to which confuses him. She went back to the carriage and making a promise with him to see each other soon. Rudeus realize that Aisha tested him if she could trust him from her and her mother's rescue, calling her "a brilliant, clever little girl" while departing off from Shirone Kingdom.

Chapter 8: An Adult

Chapter 9: The Second Turning Point

Chapter 10: The Wide, Gaping Hole In My Chest

Chapter 11: Journey's End

Chapter 12: The Reality of the Calamity

Chapter 13: The Young Miss's Resolution

Interlude: The Two She Encountered

Extra Chapter: Distorted, But Unchanged