This article
lacks information
 and requires expansion. Please
expand this page
 to include missing information to help improve the article.

Information

Summary

Chapter 1: Coming Home and Making Reports

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

(The main change is that Zanoba is going to join to Rudeus in his travel to Kingdom of Dragon King (KDK), because is worried about Pax Jr.)

Chapter 2: Randolph's Woes

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Chapter 3: The Politics of the King Dragon Realm

Searching for help to increase his probability of success, Rudeus and Zanoba are going to meet Shagar, the first commander of KDK and an old friend of Randolph. They arrive at a training ground, but the general was busy training the soldiers, meanwhile a man called Vio Von Dragon arrives and starts to talk with Rudeus about Asura and KDK armies. Because the general is going to train until the sunset and Von Dragon Surname also has power in the kingdom they leave to talk.

In a restaurant, they start to talk about the situation of the country, how Millis believers arrived in the kingdom  causing some problems and the weird movements of some countries in the strife zone. After Rudeus and Zanoba left, they returned to the training ground but the general already left, so the group decided to install his base of operation.

Chapter 4: The Naughtiest Kid

Rudeus, using the teleport circles, travels to Asura to visit Ariel. he reaches to the deepest part of the kingdom, the king room and finds a gatekeeper Doga. He doesn't want to let Rudeus pass because he needs proof that he is Rudeus, after a large discussion Ariel opens the door and he is able to enter.

Rudeus already knows that Ariel was responsible for the recent movements of the countries in Dragon King Real and he wants her to stop that so he can negotiate with them, Ariel easily accepts. After leaving the room he finds Ghislaine,The leader of the seven knights and an old man with long black hair, they also talk a bit.

Spoiler:
Old man with long black hair

Chapter 5: The King of the King Dragon Realm

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Interlude: Blue and Red

Roxy was in the house creating a test for the school of Ranoa, suddenly she felt a burning smell inside of the house,  searching for the source of the smell, she arrives to the kitchen and find Eris that wanted to cook a meal for herself but failed, Roxy use magic to clean the mess. Roxy decides to make a meal for Eris, Eris asks Roxy if she can teach her the demon language, because now, Rudeus, Roxy and Eris are going to the Demon continent, and she wants to understand what is happening. She accept, also Roxy and Eris feels a little closer.

Chapter 6: Infiltrating Fort Necross

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

(The main difference is that in the end Atofe kidnaps Rudeus, flying away).

Chapter 7: Dueling Atofe's Ultimate Four

Roxy and Eris watch how Atofe is flying away with Rudeus, Eris loses her composure and starts to follow Atofe cutting his guards, but Roxy stops her and says that she needs to remain calm. Eris remembers her training with Isolte to not let her bloodlust control her and decides to trust in Roxy, Roxy says this is going to be something like a ritual where Rudeus is the princess and they need to rescue him.

After that, appears the four heavenly kings of Atofe and they fight one by one where everyone is a least North king rank, Eris defeats the first knight easily, the second one have a slime type of body, but with help of Roxy and her, Eris also defeat him, and the third battle was about to start.

Chapter 8: Imprisoned in Fort Necross

Rudeus is thrown into a pink room that looks like it was made for a captive princess. After Atofe leaves, Moore arrives and explains the situation to Rudeus. The reason that she captured Rudeus was because she misinterpreted his words when he said that he came in the name of the kingdom of Asura. To solve the situation, Rudeus says that he wants the role of "The princess that helps the heroes" to participate and Moore accepts,  and he is able to leave the room.

Chapter 9: Princess Rudeus Enters the Fray

The battle of Roxy and Eris against the other two kings continues and the other Atofe guards are defeated. After the battle, Rudeus arrives and heals them. Atofe appears in a flashy way with the help of Moore, and another battle is about to start.

Chapter 10: Clash with Demon King Atofe

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Interlude: We Got Married

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Chapter 11: Number Four

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Extra Chapter: The Monkey and the Dreaming Youth

In the Bergarit continent, Geese was traveling the desert with the help of Hitogami and from his own experience, he was able to evade every danger and arrived at a small village, Geese asked to the villager where he can find a certain man and they tell him that man is in a hill alone. Geese climb the hill and find a young man with long black hair. He was waiting for a hundred of years for a legendary Behemoth to fight him and become the greatest hero of the history and a recent prophecy of hitogami, he knows that he is going to find that monster here.

The next day Geese watch how a colossal monster appears near the village, but was easily defeated by that man and all the villagers claim that man is a Hero. That man didn't feel that is a hero and wasn't satisfied with the battle, expecting something more legendary. Geese say to him that he knows the location of the “evil” Superd race and the Dragon God Orsted, and defeating both of them can transform him into the greatest hero of the history. He agreed to join his cause.

Spoiler:
young man with long black hair