Prologue

He darted through the hallways; his pursuer was a "wild beast". The creature’s terrifying voice rang out as it chased him relentlessly. Its words booming throughout the manor made his legs tremble.

Rudeus
 was fear struck as he hid in the shadows, terrified. The whole scenario started an hour prior.

Chapter 1: The Young Mistress’s Violence

It was evening when Rudeus arrived in the
Citadel of Roa
. The carriage had reached their destination, the liege lord’s gigantic manor. Rudeus was startled by a voice that boomed from outside the reception room. A muscular man about fifty years old stormed in who, after a loud exchange, permitted Rudeus' stay at the manor, and then stormed out of the room the way he came in. The man was
Sauros Boreas Greyrat
, liege lord of the Fittoa region, and also
Paul’s
 uncle – the butler explained to Rudeus. Next, a man appeared in the doorway. He introduced himself –
Philip Boreas Greyrat
, the liege lord’s son. Philip then went on to elaborate about the young mistress Rudeus was about to tutor. Rudeus believed he had a chance to make her listen to him and explained a trick of his to Philip. This "trick" was to pretend to have the
Young Mistress
 kidnapped, with Rudeus helping him escape through his use of magic, reading, arithmetic, etc. to encourage her to want to learn these things on her own. Showing interest in Rudeus’ plan, Philip called the girl.

And so, Rudeus finally met the Young Mistress. Rudeus’ first impression –
fierce
. He was greeted with a strike to the face. Rudeus’ second impression –
violent
. Not waiting for a response, Rudeus slapped her back to make her aware of the pain. But to his surprise, she pinned him down. Rudeus managed to escape, however she came flying at him with the fiercest look Rudeus had ever known. Rudeus, fear struck, broke into a run. This was how she, like a wild beast, chased the terrified Rudeus around the manor.

Exhausted from the pursuit, the Young Mistress eventually gave up and returned to her room. Rudeus decided he won’t give up on this job and teach the violent girl a lesson. He went and asked for Philip’s cooperation on the plan he explained before. Philip, amused to see the result, immediately began preparation.

Chapter 2: All According to Plan?

When Rudeus opened his eyes, he found himself in the middle of a dirty storehouse with the Young Mistress. So far, the plan has been progressing smoothly. All that remained was for him to create a magnificent escape with her using his great intellect. But when one of the “kidnappers” came in to silence the Young Mistress, he was way too violent. There was something wrong, Rudeus came to realize, something went wrong with the plan and they ended up with real kidnappers. Rudeus now had to come up with a plan to escape without attracting trouble. He slipped out of a window he created with the Young Mistress to end up being greeted by an unfamiliar town that wasn’t Roa. Rudeus then made a proper promise with Eris, in order to get her home she must properly hire him, to which she agreed hurriedly.

The next morning, they reached Roa. At the sight of the liege lord’s manor in the distance, they let heir guard down. Suddenly, two men grabbed the Young Mistress and disappeared into the alleyway. Rudeus immediately blocked their escape. His opponents were the two men who previously kidnapped them. Rudeus created an explosion above the buildings to startle the kidnappers. He succeeded in snatching away the Young Mistress from the man holding her. With the Young Mistress in his arms, they were able to get away but, the other man threw his sword at tremendous speed straight at Rudeus. Rudeus froze and thought his life would end there, but right at that moment, someone flew in to deflect the sword – it was
Ghislaine
. She beheaded the men in an instant and the fight ended immediately.

They finally reached the manor and the Young Mistress had regained her spirits. She arrogantly announced she would hire Rudeus as per the promise and allowed him to call her by her name – Eris.

Side Story: The Aftermath and the Boreas Greeting Style

Rudeus learned the one pulling the strings behind the incident was the butler, Thomas. A perverted noble had caught his eyes on Eris and offered him money to kidnap her. The incident was, reportedly, resolved by Ghislaine’s involvement; Philip directed Rudeus to give all the credits to her instead to divert the problems Rudeus would face. As they were talking, Sauros turned towards Rudeus and, on behalf of Eris, asked if he would teach her magic. Rudeus told Sauros that she should learn to ask for the things she wants herself, and so he called her out.

Ordered by her grandfather, Eris stood in front of Rudeus to ask him to teach her magic. Eris, glaring coldly at Rudeus, made her request while imitating a cat-girl. To his shock, Rudeus could not process her behaviours and was scared of what might happen next. She was not cute at the least; not bashful, but she looked angry. Rudeus decided he would need to stop this weird custom before it causes trouble for him down the line. After an effort, the Boreas style of asking for favours was abandoned.

Chapter 3: Her Ferocity, Unabated

It had been a month since Rudeus took up the job of a tutor. Eris proved to be a very violent and a problematic pupil; though she would pay attention to magic classes, she always ran away when it came the time for the other subjects. Anyone who came after her would get punched; Rudeus wasn’t willing to get himself into such a situation.

Finally with the help of his other student, Ghislaine, Eris gave an effort to the other classes. Whenever Eris felt unmotivated Ghislaine recounted stories of her adventurer days, where she would highlight the importance of education in practical situations; Eris listened closely and it would always fire her up. To Rudeus, it seemed Eris very much so wanted to become an adventurer.

Rudeus was progressing well in swordsmanship under Ghislaine’s guidance, more so than he ever could under Paul. He felt a large part of his improvement was thanks to having a rival – Eris. Although she seemed far more gifted with a sword, an opponent of almost equal strength helped him propel up his techniques too.

At the end of each day, Rudeus spent time in his room preparing for the next day’s lessons and finally review his own magic textbook. In such manner, his days as a tutor passed rapidly.

Chapter 4: Staff Meeting and Sunday

Six months had passed and Rudeus organized a staff meeting with Ghislaine and Eris' etiquette teacher,
Edna Leylune
. Before the meeting he convinced Phillip to allow Eris to have one day of per week, and informed Edna of this change as well - effectively giving himself a day off as well with no reduction in pay. On their first day off Rudeus and Eris headed out to the mercantile district where Rudeus visited multiple shops to learn the prices of things he was interested in. Eris laughed at Rudeus for writing down the prices of these items, but when he instructed her on the importance of managing one's own wallet she listened and understood.

Rudeus also learns about the
Armored Dragon King Perugius
 and his impressive involvement of sealing
Laplace
 in the human vs. demon war 400 years ago after Rudeus saw his floating castle,
Chaos Breaker
.

Chapter 5: The Young Miss Turns Ten

Another year had passed in which time Eris became Intermediate-tier in swordplay in addition to her 10th birthday quickly approaching. This meant a large celebration party in which she would be forced to dance, resulting in all her lessons for a couple weeks being etiquette lessons. However, Edna was unable to teach Eris how to dance as she disliked moving to the rhythm of the beat as it was different from her own, but with some help from Rudeus and pretending that each step is dodging a sword attack or feint she was able to at least mimic the dance moves. During the party Rudeus used this same trick to help calm Eris down and prevent her from embarrassing herself. Overall it was a great party and at the end of the night Rudeus invited Ghislaine and Eris to his room where he presented them with their apprentice wands, and they ate food and drank together.

The next morning Rudeus ascends the stairs of the one place in the mansion he was not supposed to go, only to find Sauros getting busy with one of the cat-eared maids. They had a brief conversation in which Sauros says he was praying to an ominous red gem floating in the sky.

Chapter 6: Learning A Foreign Language

Rudeus reads a book giving an overview of this world's history. Around 15,000 years ago there were seven worlds each with their own people, but they all converged onto the current world when the others were all destroyed by an evil Dragon God who was later slain by his own commanders. Since then 3 Great Human-Demon Wars broke out, with the most recent being caused by the Demon God Laplace and his invasion of human territories. It ended when Laplace was sealed by a group of 7 heroes, Dragon King Perugius being one of them. A truce among humans and demons was created where any restrictions on travel for demons to continents primarily inhabited by humans were lifted and the two races can live in peace, on paper. Although in practice the demons are still persecuted in many human dwelling areas.

Rudeus also started to learn another of most common languages in the world, the Beast God tongue, spoken primarily in the nothern part of the Millis Continent where the Beast race has their largest settlement and the Demon God tongue, spoken on the
Demon continent
. After a year Rudeus turned 9 and was able to successfully learn the Beast God tongue from Ghislaine, and he got a reply from Roxy after sending her a letter to help him learn the Demon God tongue including a complete dictionary and notes about each demon race hand made by Roxy. She also told him that
the prince
 she is now tutoring bought a creepily accurate figurine of her, which unknown to her was actually made by Rudeus.

Chapter 7: Absolute Promise

Rudeus turns 10, and successfully learned the Demon God tongue as well as the Fighting God tongue, spoken on the
Begaritt Continent
. He is now only unable to speak the Sky God tongue and the Sea God tongue out of the most common languages. He is also approaching the Intermediate tier in swordplay while Eris had reached the Advanced-tier. Rudeus was also increasing his proficiency with magic through his continued creation of lifelike figurines.

Because Paul was disowned from the Notos Greyrat family another member took over being the head of the household, and would possibly send assassins towards Rudeus if they found out who he was. Because of this Rudeus was unable to have as large a party for his 10th birthday as Eris did, however she organized a surprise party for him where everyone in the manor attended. During the party Rudeus was given a magic staff,
Aqua Heartia
, an extremely expensive magical staff that makes it much easier to cast all types of magic especially water magic. The party ended with just Rudeus and Phillip left, where Phillip explains that he lost the battle to become the head of the Boreas Greyrat family to his older brother James. He has not given up on this dream though, and offered to let Rudeus marry Eris and help him seize control of the Boreas family, saying he would put Eris in Rudeus' bed that very night. Rudeus politely declined, not wanting to get involved in any political machinations.

After Rudeus left to return to his room he found Eris sitting there wearing a negligee, and told him she was there to keep him company since she thought he must be lonely and that today was a special day. Because of that she let him grope her a little bit, but Rudeus pushed too far causing her to get mad and beat him up. After a couple minutes she returned and promised him that in 5 years after he turned 15 that she would go all the way with him.

Chapter 8: The Turning Point

Roxy leaves her position as royal court magician and personal tutor of the 7th prince of the Shirone kingdom after he student turned 15 according to her original contract. She also did this in order to find out what was going on in the Fitoa Region due to the strange colors of the sky.
Dragon God Orsted
, Perugius,
Sword God Gal Falion
 and Demon Emperor
Kishirika Kishurisu
 also all noticed this disturbance in the sky, with Perugius sending out one of his 12 familiar,
Almanfi
 to investigate. This lead to Almanfi nearly killing Rudeus due to mistakenly thinking he was the one causing the disturbance when he was merely trying to show Ghislaine and Eris his Saint tier water magic. Before they could talk about what was going on a bright light enveloped the entire sky causing the entire Fittoa region and all its people to disappear.

Epilogue

Six months later Roxy arrived at the Fittoa region only to see for herself that the entire settlement truly was gone, and next to nothing was left of what used to be there being merely a field of grass now. Roxy learned that a mana calamity occured causing all residents of the Fittoa region to be teleported to random location all across the world. Many are still completely missing. Paul left a note saying that he has a search team of adventurers in the Millis continent searching for anyone affected by the calamity including Zenith, Lilia, and Aisha who are still missing, while Norn is with Paul, and that since he knows Rudeus is capable he will be searching for him last. Roxy made up her mind to help search for Rudeus and inform him of what happened by finding a search party and heading to either the Begaritt or Demon Continent.

Extra Chapter: The Forest Goddess

A side story about Ghislaine being teleported in the middle of the Ejin Forest in the middle of the Central Continent's Conflict Zone. There was a battle going on there where the newly formed Markien Mercenary Country was being surrounded by both the Dikuto Kingdom and the Broze Empire in their alliance to take down the new threat, and the Markien Mercenary Country staked their victory on one final ploy to send out 10 of their soldiers through the forest, which was known to be extremely dangerous so no one entered it, to assassinate the Dikuto Kingdom's king while dressed in the uniforms of the Broze Empire. This resulted in the company of 10 being saved by Ghislaine who was teleported there, and who assisted them in slaughtering their way through the Dikuto Kingdom base and eventually killing their king. Right before his death he ordered his army to break the alliance and attack the Broze Empire, thinking it was them who started it, allowing the Markien Mercenary Country to take advantage of the situation and beat both countries with their meager remaining army. This caused the leader of the company of 10 to create a good luck charm of Ghislaine's figure, with all his men following suit causing "Laine" to become the Markien Mercenary Country's Goddess of Protection lasting more than 100 years, all without her knowledge.

References