Rudeus Greyrat





Lucy together with Rudeus and Sylphiette



Rudeus is Lucy's father who she initially avoids when she was young but grew to love him and she also mentions that Rudeus' smell gives her a peace of mind. Lucy is also aware of the accomplishments of Rudeus even when he was young and she sees him as an amazing person and thinks that Rudeus does not expect much from her but she still wants Rudeus to praise her.

Sylphiette

"It is important to make friends, okay? And you must never bully the weak, okay?"

-Sylphiette to Lucy

Sylphiette is Lucy's biological mother who she calls "White-Haired Mama" because of the color of her hair. Lucy describes Sylphiette to be a talkative person and would persuade her to always make friends.

Roxy Migurdia

"Live however you want, if you don't understand something then just ask someone."

-Roxy to Lucy

Roxy is Rudeus' second wife who Lucy calls "Blue-Haired Mama". Lucy describes Roxy to be a reserved person who never persuades her about anything. But she considers Roxy to be very knowledgeable and always answers any questions Lucy asks her.

Eris Boreas Greyrat

"It's important to protect someone. For that reason you must become strong."

Eris to Lucy

Eris is Rudeus' third wife who Lucy calls "Red-Haired Mama" who Lucy describes to never speak much and would also be the one who trains Lucy in the Sword styles and to discipline her if she does something out of line.
 During a family meeting it was decided that Lucy will being studying at
Ranoa Magic Academy
 at age 7, Eris disagrees with the notion but did not strongly oppose it.

Zenith Greyrat

Zenith is Lucy's grandmother and is aware of her circumstances on why she is now unable talk and Zenith's tendency to be absent-minded and being together with
Beat
. When Lucy feels sorry or gets angry, Zenith would caress her head which Lucy describes her to be a mysterious granny.

Clive Grimoire

Clive is Lucy's half-uncle but she still treats him like a younger brother since he is the same age as Ars and 2 years younger than her.
 At age 12, Lucy and Clive started dating.
 When Lucy became 18 years old, Lucy brings Clive to Rudeus and tells him that she will marry Clive.

Orsted

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

References