This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

Luicelia Superdia
 (
ルイシェリア
・
スペルディア
)
 is the daughter and only child of
Norn Greyrat
 and
Ruijerd Superdia
. According to
Orsted
, she will play a vital role in the battle against the resurrected Demon God
Laplace
 in the future.

Appearance

Luicelia's face has a striking resemblance with her mother Norn and shares similar hairstyle of sporting a ponytail at the back of her head but also has the distinctive features of the
Superd Tribe
 race such as emerald green hair, a red gemstone in her forehead and a tail.

Personality

She’s a very reserved person, honest and would immediately kill her enemy but she was someone who battled on in difficult circumstances, tried very hard and earnest on surface, a beautiful Demon.

Orsted

Luicelia inherited her father’s rigid stubbornness and her mother’s clumsy nature. Despite her stoic appearance, Luicelia is an emotionally rich girl who loves gossip stories. She’s a quiet yet confident individual, which often leads her to speak in blunt terms.

Background

Luicelia is the daughter of
Ruijerd Superdia
 and
Norn Greyrat
 who are brought together once again at the suggestion of
Orsted
 who has become attached to Luicella during his countless timeloops he has gone through where Luicelia has helped him on countless occasions and he feels indebted to her. Thus Orsted asks
Rudeus
 to arrange for the marriage of Norn and to the surprise of Rudeus when he learned that Norn will be married to Ruijerd, his comrade and close friend.
 Due to the Superd race's prolonged childhood and slower maturation there was a time when Luicelia once resented being left behind by her cousins, but later she made peace with it. Decades later, she works directly under
Ars
 and is a member of the Ogre Empire's special elite forces .

Plot

"Rest assured. I won't die."

-Luicelia to Ars

Luicelia would later work under the Biheril Kingdom where she would be known as the Shadow Chasing Demon for her reputation of not letting her enemies escape her pursuit and works along side
Henry
. After eliminating a spy, she discovers the long-lost Volume 29 of Rudeus’ Chronicles and delivers it to Ars Greyrat. She is also entrusted with eliminating anyone who uncovers the Ogre God Empire’s secret fortress and plays a critical role alongside Henry in a high-risk operation, Aisha’s final invasion plan against the Asura Kingdom, devised before her death.

Power and Abilities

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Equipment

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Achievements

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Quotes

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Alternate Timeline

In the previous timeline, she was the last Superd and helps
Orsted
 to fight
Laplace
.

References