This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

"You're Dragon God's adopted son, then you are my child as well. Please rest assured, this is your home too."

Lunaria to Laplace

Lunaria
 (
ルナリア
,

Runaria
)
 is the
Original Human God
's daughter and the wife of the
First Dragon God
. She is also the mother of
Orsted
.

Personality

Laplace
 describes Lunaria as a caring and kind person who treats everyone around her like family despite initially being disliked by the Dragon Tribe who quesions why the First Dragon God would marry someone outside the Dragon Tribe. After a century or so, Lunaria was ever-benevolent like a goddess that when talking to her, everyone felt an unusual peace which lead to her being accepted and adored by all the Dragon Tribe like one of their own.

Background

"I did not love Lunaria, but she did her best for the Dragon World. She used her power as a scion of daughter to enrich the Dragon World."

-First Dragon God

Lunaria became the wife of the First Dragon God at the suggestion of the Human God. By the time Lunaria became pregnant, the First Dragon God realizes that she seemed more special than the
Dragon Tribe
 and grew to love her that he always spends time with her when he is home.
 When the First Dragon God brings Laplace to their home, Lunaria welcomes him and stays by his side, watching over him serenely but lets the servants take care of his other needs despite her own child is about to be born which makes Laplace view her like his mother as well.

"Fufufu. Husband, please give the child a name."

-Lunaria

For the next decades, Lunaria's belly would grow and Laplace would become a Dragon Warrior to which Lunaria arranges a celebration and would listen to his stories about the different dragons he has trained and is becoming known throughout the Dragon World for his accomplishments. Lunaria gives birth to Orsted when cooperation and peace is has been made by the other Gods to which the First Dragon God and Laplace are on the meeting. By the time they have returned, the celebration has already started and Lunaria presents Orsted to the First Dragon God who rushed to the mansion upon realizing what has happened and Lunaria asks that he names their son. The First Dragon God surprisingly did not give his son's name yet then the Five Dragon Generals also came and is impressed by the child that leaves them with a solemn expression and soon the other Gods also arrives at the Dragon World to give their blessings. When the festival is nearly over, Demon Emperor
Kirisis Calisis
 arrives and Lunaria welcomes her close friend with a smile and lets her see the child to which Kirisis states that he will become a smart and wise man in the future.

With the relationship with the Demon World steadily improving and no signs of conflict from the other worlds as well, this is seen as the peaceful era in the six worlds until the fateful day where Lunaria is found dead in a pool her own blood in the middle of her room.

Legacy

"I can't forgive the one who killed Lunaria. I'm still trembling with unprecedented rage... Even if we turn other worlds into enemies, will you follow me?"

-First Dragon God to Laplace

The First Dragon God and Laplace finds Lunaria dead in a fetal position protecting her child until the end.

At the sight of Lunaria's remains, the First Dragon God's roar is heard in the entire Dragon World and his fist covered with Dragon Battle Aura punches a hole that blew off a solid chunk of Dragon Roar Mountain.

The First Dragon God commands the Dragon Generals to search for the murderer but asks Laplace to stay and mourn with him.

A Dragon Tribe funeral is first held where Lunaria's remains is carried to the center of Kayos by family members namely the First Dragon God and Laplace to be placed on an altar where eulogies are recited and prayer for a safe rebirth.

Lunaria's remains are then brought to the end of the city to begin a funeral procession where her remains is carried by the Dragon God and accompanied by his son who is carried by Laplace moving in a clock-wise direction around the city.

The Dragon Tribe in the city performs the salute of highest honor upon seeing the procession and attend the funeral by assembling in its inner perimeter.

The First Dragon God brings Lunaria's remains to a building with walls filled with names of Dragon Tribes who died but Lunaria's name is carved on a stone tablet which is for special people in the Dragon Tribe.

The Dragon Tribe's funeral rites concludes with the remains being cast in to a hole that leads to the sky but a Human funeral is conducted next for Lunaria.

The First Dragon God brings Lunaria to the garden beside his mansion and burns Lunaria and together with Laplace, they buried her bones and ashes into the ground then planted a small sapling above will grow into a tree through the power of the dead and while the tree lives, the living would never forget the dead.

The Dragon Generals give their report from their investigation of Lunaria's murder which lists suspects from the other worlds to which the First Dragon God decides to confront them and wage war against the other worlds.

After the death of the Beast God, Heaven God, Sea God and Demon God which also destroys their respective world at the hands the First Dragon God, he orders the attack on the
Human World
 next that shocks the Dragon Generals on why he would attack Lunaria's home world and decides to stop the First Dragon God that resulted into a battle.

After the battle, the Human God struck the First Dragon God and admits that he plotted the death of Lunaria and how he manipulated them all to wage war on the other worlds and eventual destruction.

Power and Abilities

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Achievements

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Quotes

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Trivia

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

References