This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

Magic Stone Disease
, also known as
Petrification Syndrome
, is an extremely rare
Magic
 disease that turns the body of the infected into magic stone.

Background

Magic Stone Disease is known to exist in the
Human World
 since the Human-Demon Wars or earlier, when
Kishirika Kishirisu
 was ruling as the Demon Empress. She has knowledge of this disease, that is also passed to those who are given her
Identification Eyes
 in recent times
.

Cause

"I have no idea where the rat came from or when it got down there. Most likely, it sneaked into my luggage from the
Demon Continent
 or while I was in
Perugius
' floating fortress. It doesn't really matter where it came from, though."

-Future Rudeus

Rats are the main carriers of Magic Stone Disease because some of them have resistance to it but will eventually die eventually. These infected rats can be identified easily by their teeth that turns into violet crystal. Humans or other animals could also be infected by consuming the contaminated food eaten by these rats.

Infection

The pathogen of Magic Stone Disease is not airborne and infects orally, but it doesn't persist for very long and it disappears around a day, resulting in a very low infection rate. Moreover, it only infects pregnant women. When infected, the pathogen grows inside the fetus and proceeds to remold it into magic stone, which results in the death of the growing baby. At this point the mother also begins to exhibit symptoms of the disease, such as having fever and becoming bedridden. Finally, the body of the mother would start turning into magic stone (beginning from her feet), and she would also die in a few weeks if left untreated
.

Treatment

Magic Stone Disease is only curable by God Rank Detoxification Magic. The only book for the chant of God Rank Detoxification Magic belongs to the
Milis Religion
 in
Millishion
, where they have exclusive rights to it and is only made available for archbishop rank or above. Transcribing the book takes time since it is as thick as a dictionary, whereas stealing it would result in the perpetrators being labelled as the worst criminals by the Milis Religion and hunted down for life by Millishion's Holy Knight Orders
.

History

"The fact that after changing history this way, in the end a favorable future for him awaits... Thus I will make you change history, to a future that will be favorable to me."

-Orsted to Rudeus

Hitogami
 plotted to kill future
Roxy Migurdia
 and her unborn
child
 through the rat infected with Magic Stone Disease. Since pregnancy weakens those who have a strong
Fate
 that Hitogami cannot manipulate easily otherwise.

Cliff Grimoire
 identifies the disease and together with
Zanoba Shirone
, Rudeus infiltrates the Millis Church and steals the book of God Rank Detoxification Magic in hopes to cure Roxy.

Being hunted by the Holy Knights Order of Millishion resulting in the death of Cliff and Roxy still dies in the end, resulting to Hitogami's plan to succeed.
 .

30 years later,
Future Rudeus
 realized how Hitogami used the Magic Stone Disease to kill Roxy and travelled back in
time
 to warn his
younger self
.

Future Rudeus died after talking with Rudeus, who later went to the basement and killed the rat before it could infect the food Roxy will eat, and later sent its remains to the
Magician Guild
 for study
.

Hitogami confronted Rudeus in his dreams for the failed plan to kill Roxy, but agreed to a compromise if Rudeus kills
Orsted
.

Rudeus was defeated by Orsted and became his subordinate against Hitogami, while Orsted agreed to protect his family to ensure Hitogami is prevented from targeting Rudeus'
Family
.

References