This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

"We the Five Dragon Generals, have fought side-by-side for tens of thousands of years. One of us is gone. It is unforgivable if we don't avenge Crystal's death."

Maxwell to Laplace

Dark Dragon King
Maxwell
 is one of the
First Dragon God
's Five Dragon Generals who is from the Dark Dragon Tribe and in charge of hunting dragons and monsters that threaten Kayos and the Dragon Tribe cities.

Appearance

Maxwell has blue-silver scales, steel eyes and is much smaller than the average Dragon Tribe, giving the impression that he is small and flighty. He always have a wretched smile and speaks rather crudely.

Personality

Maxwell despite his looks is talented, hardworking and loyal. Maxwell is even more martial than
Chaos
 and when a situation occurs, he is always the first to jump into the breach but still prioritizes the safety of the
First Dragon God
 and fellow Dragon Generals when it comes to deciding a course of action.

Background

There were many who spoke ill of Maxwell behind his back. But those who knew him well never mocks him. Due to his hard work of exterminating monsters that appeared throughout the Dragon World, only few members of the Dragon Tribe are killed by monsters.

Plot

Maxwell presents his report on his investigation of
Crystal
's death on the meeting with the Dragon God and the remaining Dragon Generals and concludes that it was impossible for a gold dragon to kill Crystal leading
Szilard
 to consider that a demon could have killed him. When Chaos vehemently opposed
Laplace
 finding the killer Maxwell-who is unusually supportive of the idea, calms him down by explaining that the killer could be isolating each Dragon General one by one and suggests they move in pairs.

A few days later, Maxwell meets Laplace once again and introduces
Gora and Scrubava
 to assist him on the investigation. Laplace was in doubt of himself by this gesture but Maxwell praises him for the dragons he trained are used by his Dark Dragon Team was a big help and assures him that he will immediately aid him when the need arises.

Laplace meets with Maxwell after recovering from his battle against
Necrolia Nacrolia
 and informs him that Gora and Scrubava has died in battle. Maxwell attends another meeting where Laplace and Szilard gives their report then Szilard also confirms that he personally executed Necrolia to which Maxwell implied that he would have executed Necrolia himself if he is still alive. When the First Dragon God names Laplace to be Crystal's successor as Dragon General, Maxwell although initially shocked, he acknowledges Laplace's strength to defeat even one of the Eight Demon Kings.
 When the Dragon God's child is born, Maxwell goes all over the Dragon World to gather meat for the parade announced by Szilard which lasts for decades and like the rest of the Dragon Generals, Maxwell is also impressed by the child and left with a solemn expression.

Maxwell and the rest of the Dragon Generals accompanies the First Dragon God as he battles and defeats the Gods of the Beast World, Ocean World and Sky World one after another and resulting to the destruction of each world just by the power of the First Dragon God and the Five Dragon Generals.
 But for the Demon World, which is comparable in fighting strength with the Dragon Tribe and in addition, the Eight Great Demon Kings matched strengths with the Five Dragon Generals so the full force of the Dragon World's Dragon Warriors is brought to wage war on the Demon World. The war between the Dragon World and Demon World lasted for decades where its a a cycle of the invading army is repelled by the defending army and the defending army will invade in retaliation and be repelled back. During this time every innovation and technology is focused on winning the war where Chaos develops the Dragon Gate to weaken demonic power.

Due to the advancement of magic and technology, the war between the Dragon World and Demon World have caused massive casualties for both sides. The Dragon Tribe follows the Human God's suggestion to isolate the Eight Demon King one by one and defeat them which causes the
Demon God
 to appear in the battle field and duel the First Dragon God. After the First Dragon God defeats the Demon God, the Dragon Generals brings him back to the Dragon World while the Demon World begins to collapse.

--To be added--

Power and Abilities

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Equipment

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Achievements

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Quotes

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Trivia

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

References