Maze Of Love
 (
愛の迷宮
,

Ai no Meikyū
)
 is the thirteenth chapter of the
Mushoku Tensei

manga adaptation
.

Cover Characters

Roxy Migurdia

Summary

In a town square, the Bard sings a story of Roxy.

Several years ago, a team of E-Ranked adventurers approach Roxy for recruitment needing a mage, only to turn them down as she is A-Rank; surprising them given her youthful appearance. As Bard swoons at her popularity with others her age, Roxy tries to correct her but stops thinking it futile. Seeing Roxy as a talented mage at a young age, she follows Roxy thinking it would be the start of an incredible story to tell, so Roxy voices her not being responsible for whatever befalls the Bard.

Later, Roxy partners with the "Triad" Adventurer team and starts to develop an attraction for team leader, Sam. After clearing a dungeon level, bard and Roxy learn from party member Dohn that, while Sam and Pamela are a couple, he is in love with Pamela yet wants her to be happy, so he refrains from imposing out of respect for her personal space. As the group gets rest, Sam tries seducing Roxy, but inquires to his being with Pamela. As Sam says not to worry, a Death Claw Tiger finds them and Sam runs out with Roxy in hand, leaving the other three as fodder to further his escape. Pamela wakes up to find the Death Claw attack, but when Dohn tanks the damage, Roxy lets go of Sam to defend the others and slays the Death-Claw.

Roxy uses Healing on Dohn, but after hearing Sam's disregard for them, she slaps him and calls him out. As Roxy dreamed of finding an adventurer in a labyrinth to rescue her and start a romance, she finds Sam is not that dreamt of adventurer, and tells Pamela what Sam did and tells her of Dohn's love for her. Leaving with righteous indignation, Roxy's exit is undercut by her tripping over a rock and the ladies seeing her panties; Roxy acts like it didn't happen.

In the present, Pamela meets the Bard, telling her that the group immediately disbanded, then she married Dohn and the two have been living well together since. Both talk about how thankful they are to Roxy's involvement, leading to Roxy elsewhere in the world to sneeze, sensing someone talking about her somewhere.

Appearances

Characters

Roxy Migurdia

Bard

Pamela

Dohn

Sam

Skills

Regions

Others

Differences from Light Novel

Trivia

To Be Added.

Navigation

Template:JuvenileP