This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

The
Miko of Memory
 (“Blessed Child of Memory” in Light Novel), also known as the
Miko of Millishion
 is an unnamed young girl born with a special power that allows her to see memories by looking into people's eyes.

Appearance

The Miko of Memory has long, wavy blonde hair with bangs, and has blue eyes with a pink diamond-shaped pupil
.

Personality

The Miko is a kind and compassionate person, such that she willingly allow herself to be abducted by
Rudeus
 to aid his quest of saving
Zenith
, despite him knocking out her personal
guards
. Perhaps due to her ability to read minds, she is exhibiting a calm and understanding demeanor most of the time. However, she becomes shy and frightful when meeting the person she admires for the first time
.

Background

When it was discovered the Miko can see read people's memories, she had her name taken from her, and she was referred to only as the Miko-sama by her subordinates. She became the trump card of Cardinal
Leblanc Mcfarlane
 who was competing against Pope
Harry Grimoire
,
Cliff Grimoire
's grandfather for power, as she was a shrine maiden who possessed wondrous power which allowed the
Demon Race Expulsion Faction
 to regain its influence and resulting to a bloody power struggle within the Milis Religion. The Miko of Memory is often used for interrogations, however permission to use her power is regulated by the Cardinal that even the Royal Family of Millishion has to apply for permission to use the Miko's power.
.

Plot

Volume 5 - Juvenile Period - Reunion Chapter

During Eris's goblin subjugation accompanied by
Cliff Grimoire
 in
Millishion
, she saves the Miko and Therese from a group of assassins, who Cliff recognized were people who were his teachers.

Volume 8 - Youth Period - Special Student Chapter

It was mentioned that a few years ago in Milishion, there was an attempt on a Miko Shrine Maiden's life. Because this incident was the work of the Pope's faction, the internal struggles intensified.

Volume 21 - Young Man Period - Cliff Chapter

Of the little freedom she was allowed, the Miko frequently chose to come to the garden in the
Great Church
, and is always escorted by her guards. Ten years after being saved by
Eris Boreas Greyrat
, once she was about 20, she met Rudeus while out in the garden she usually frequented, and discovered that he was Eris' husband. She began to meet him frequently, and became friends with him. In the time, Rudeus was also conversing regularly with one of her guards,
Therese Latreia
, who was also Rudeus's aunt, about the situation with his mother.

Rudeus meets with the Miko once again and asks her to sign a petition to prevent the removal of Therese from being her guards to which he agrees and it was also said the Miko has a weak
Fate
. She said that she could live up to 30 years before dying due to assassinations and to prevent this, she requests to join the
ORSTED Corporation
 and became part of Orsted subordinates. Rudeus accepts her request and also throws in a Magic Beast to protect her who they later names Nurse and her life expectancy prolonged to at least 50.

The Miko meets with Rudeus who is accompanied by Eris and the tells her she wants to be a
Swordsman
 like Eris who she idolizes since saving her life. After following Eris' instructionss in swinging a stick, the Miko also sees Eris' memory on how she trained at the
Holy Land of Swords
 and begins training her body.

Powers and Abilities

Miko Power - Telepathy






The Miko of Memory reading Zenith's memories



When looking into someone's eyes, Miko is able to see one's "surface memories", memories that a person has in mind. This also extends to being able to see related memories to that subject, and the longer she stares into someone's eyes, the more of that person's memories she sees.

This power makes her perfect for interrogations, because when asked a question regarding a crime, it's impossible for someone to
not
 think of the question or its answer. This is often how her powers are used. This power also allows the Miko to see the memories of her subject even from several years ago but it also leaves her very exhausted afterwards
.

Trivia

She seems to have a weak Fate, as according to Orsted, in all timelines where
Rudeus
 didn't exist, she never reached past the age of 30 and usually died around the age of 10. It's likely that assassins were the cause of her death in these timelines.

Miko has an owl as a guardian beast/familiar summoned on behalf of her named Nurse. Rudeus mistaken her request as a naming Miko herself, and gave the name referencing the Eroge "Miko Miko Nurse".

After meeting with Eris in the church headquarters she wanted to become like Eris, so she started training and become more slim, though using sword or magic was prohibited.

Reference