This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

Template:Location





Emblem of the Milis Religion seen through out the Holy Kingdom of Milis



Milis Religion
 is the largest religious organization in the world founded by Saint Milis that is found almost through out the continents where humans live.

Headquarters





The Great Church in the Anime



The Great Church is the main headquarters of the Milis Religion located in
Millishion
, Holy Kingdom of Milis,
Millis Continent
.  The current leader is Pope
Harry Grimoire
,
Cliff Grimoire
's grandfather.

Factions

The Milis Religion followed the scripture saying that "all
Demons
 should be destroyed" and rejected the Demon Race. But 300 years ago, a priest read its scripture that said: "All races are equal under Millis" and questions if the Demon Races are equal as well, which caused a division in the priests and causing the religion to split in 2 factions that are in a power struggle since then.

Demon Race Acceptance Faction






Assassins of the Demon Race Acceptance Faction



Also known as the Pope Faction lead by the current Pope
Harry Grimoire
 is the larger faction that has the influence among the majority of the general populace and the
Order of Instruction
. 50 years ago, the Acceptance faction influence rose after they put an end to the escalating conflicts with the
Beast Race
 and other denizens of the
Great Forest
, and for the next 30 years since then had complete control of the religion and Millishion's affairs. Despite being a religious organization, assassinations is still a method used by both factions especially towards the opposing faction's pope candidate.

Demon Race Expulsion Faction






Emblem of the Demon Race Expulsion Faction seen in even in the Commercial District



Also known as the Cardinal Faction lead by
Cardinal Leblanc McFarlane
 is the faction of the Milis Religion who zealously follows the old teachings of the Milis Church that the Demon Race should be completely expelled and has a close relationship with the
Latreia House
 and the Order of the Temple and at the peak of their influence, non-human races were strongly oppressed in Millishion which resulted many quarrels with the inhabitants of the Great Forest. While currently losing influence among the 2 factions for the last 30 years, this has changed when the
Miko of Memory
 was born and joins the Demon Race Expulsion Faction to become the candidate for the next pope. The influence of the Demon Race Expulsion rose to the point that even the Royal Family needs permission from the Cardinal to even use the powers of the Miko.

Legends

Necklace of Milis






Milis Religion Wedding Ceremony



Before heading to certain death, Saint Millis gave an ornamental necklace to her most beloved who gave him a kiss on his forehead and wished for his return. When Saint Millis was in danger, her beloved one offered the necklace to God who was touched by the exquisite necklace and beloved's love and intervenes to save Saint Millis.

This become a part of the Milis Religion wedding ceremony where a replica of the Necklace of Milis is a requirement of every Milis Church. The priest hands over the necklace to the groom who puts it on her bride. Then the bride kisses the groom on his forehead, a kiss of oath similar to the legend.

Holy Sword Highway






Blue Dragon Mountain Range's gap said to be made by Milis



"In these times of suffering, the righteous one endured. In these days of hardship, he cultivated strength."

Milis Holy Sciptures Atomos Chapter 12, Verse 31

During the war between humans and demons, Saint Milis plans to use his holy sword to defeat the demon army but this takes time to focus the attack. While Milis is preparing the attack, Peter Dolior the commander of the human army and Milis' closest friend fought to hold off the demon army and died in battle until Milis brings down his holy sword on the demon army. The power of the holy sword reached from Millishion, cuts a gap through the Blue Dragon Mountain Range, through the Great Forest, then across the ocean and struck the demon king that instantly kills him at the place now known as
Wind Port
.

The place where Milis launched the attack is now known as the Holy Sword Highway that is still bursting with
Mana
 from Saint Millis, so even if the surrounding area is flooded because the rainy season of the Great Forest, the road remains dry and further proof of that, there are absolutely no encounters with monsters.

Trivia

Milis Religion shares similarity with the
Catholic Church
 from the pope being its head to even its teachings.

References