This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!





Millishion in the Anime



Millishion
 is a
Human
 city and capital of the Holy Country of Millis,
Millis Continent
 which is said to be the most beautiful city in the
Human World
 for its majesty and harmony.

Geography

Millishion is located in the of central region of Millis Continent and is bordered by the Blue Dragon Mountain Range from the north and beyond is the Great Forest while making possible to get a full view of the city just by looking at it from the Holy Sword Highway. The Nikolaus River flows from Blue Dragon Mountain Range to the city that is the main source of water for the sparkling blue Grand Lake at the center of the city. Flooding was a problem for the city in the past due to the 3 months of torrential rainy season until the creation of the Seven Magic Towers to perfectly control the water and projects a barrier around the city.

Background

On the final battle of the
Laplace Wars
, the final kingdom left behind in the human race is the Holy Country of Milis, who rallied its entire army to resist lead by the 7 heroes. But due to the beast races acting as a blockade in the Great Forest and ally of the demons, the 7 heroes convinced the beast race to ally with them instead by kidnapping their children and threaten them. After a short time, the 7 heroes led the Holy Knight Orders and the beast races to attack the Laplace army. After the fierce battle, 4 of the 7 heroes died, but the entire main Laplace army was completely routed, and successfully sealed the Demon-God
Laplace
. The only 3 survivors are, Dragon God
Urupen
, North God
Kalman I
, the Armored King
Perugius Dola
 and are called the [The three heroes who vanquished the Demon God].

Laplace was defeated, but the human race was also exhausted and it was impossible to continue fighting therefore, a treaty was signed
with the moderate faction's Demon King. The treaty removes the blockade from the
Demon Continent
 thus allowing the demon races to travel freely to other continents and the discrimination towards the demon races are all banned.
 Despite the treaty, the discrimination towards the demon races is still as deep as before especially between the Milis Religion's
Demon Race Acceptance
 and
Demon Race Expulsion
 factions who are in a bitter power struggle in Millishion to this day.

Areas

Millishion has multiple entrance in its districts but with the exception of the Adventurers District, entering the other district will put Adventurers through a certain amount of questioning and it can take quite a bit of time.

Adventurers District

Located in the south, the Adventurers District is the place where the Adventurers gather where all sorts of shops and inns aimed towards Adventurers. There's also a slum area, gambling place and the slave market is in this district rather than the commerce district. Near the district's entrance to the city, there are inns and stables that provides a service to take luggage to the inn for adventurers that are not in other towns.

Holy District

Located in the west, there is the Holy District where a number of places for those related to the Milis Religion is located such as the enormous Great Church and the Knight Orders has their headquarters in this district.

Residential District

Located in the north, is the Residential District where the section of private houses and blocks also follows the harmony of blue and green seen through out Millishion. This is the place where the family of nobles, knights and average citizens live but fundamentally they are all private houses in the residential district.

Commercial District

Located in the east, the Commercial District is where all sorts of merchants gather which has a large number of shops, but the structures are small. It's a place where many companies meet and widen their trade contacts together seen in any business district and services like Blacksmiths and Auction houses are here as well.
 The 2 factions of the Milis Religion is also shown here by posting the emblems of the faction they are affiliated with below their sign post particularly the Demon Race Expulsion who refuses to sell their wares to demons or even throw them out of their shop.

Points of Interest

White Palace

The White Palace is Holy Country of Millis' Seat of Power floating at the center of the Grand Lake and home of the Royal Family. The Seven Magic Towers encircling the White Palace protects it from floods and because of the barrier from the towers, no walls are needed.
 Unlike Asura Kingdom's Royal Family, The Milis Church holds most of the power so having an audience the Millishion's king is only for formality.

Adventure Guild
 Main Headquarters

The Adventure Guild Main Headquarters is a silver glowing two story building and is the largest building in the Adventurers District at the end of the main road. Being the main headquarters, it is also the largest Adventure Guild Headquarters in the world and the main lobby is larger than the banquet halls of the
Citadel of Roa
.
 Since there is no Adventure Guild Headquarters in the Great Forest, non-human adventurers like the elves, hobbit, dwarves and beast race uses either Millishion or Zanto Port as their base or take requests on either places and because of this, adventurers in Millishion regardless of race are treated without bias.

A permanent job request in Millishion is the Goblin-Subjgation Job that it is also stated on the request to not tear of the request on the board and simply bring the gathered goblin ears to the counter for 10 Milis copper a piece and it can be accepted by adventurers regardless of rank. Goblins are E-ranked magic beasts that are almost a rat-like existence in the
Human World
 and only appears in the forests or plains. Although goblins are weak, if they are left unchecked, they would steadily increase in population and start to attack nearby villages.

Great Church

The Great Church is the Headquarters and the center of faith of the
Milis Religion
, the world's largest religious organization which is a 4 storey building with a golden onion-shaped dome at the top and has 4 courtyards matching the 4 seasons respectively.

Magic Towers

Millishion has 7 Magic Towers that are huge
Magic Tools
 that encircles the city to control the water levels of the lake and prevent flooding in the city especially during the rainy season. The tower is so tall and massive that it takes several minutes to circle it and at close distance, the top of the tower cannot be seen. The Magic Tower houses the Magic Tool like a case and it is also by protected soldiers and a large scale barrier magic where faint symbols around the tower can be seen. Because of the tower being unique only to Millishion, it is also a famous tourist spot for the city's visitors.

Orphanage

The Orphanage is run by the Milis Religion where it is said to be the symbol of their prestige and authority. As such, there were no problems with the management and the orphaned children were able to grow without worries and eventually be adopted by their foster parents or those who reaches age 10 would enter school also managed by the Milis Religion. At school, they train for five years for either
Swordsmanship
 or
Magic
 that suits their talent where those who excelled not only studying but also in the sword ang magic would join the Holy Knight Order while the majority becomes Adventurers. Thus, many adventurers were alumnis of the orphanage and would occasionally return to the orphanage while greeting their former teachers and tell fun stories of their adventures to the orphans and Cliff at the time is among those orphans who longed to be an Adventurer.

Holy Knight Orders

"Don't say anything too dangerous, or else if those Holy Knights overhear it, they'll still capture you even if it's a joke you know?"

Geese Nukadia
 to
Rudeus Greyrat

Millishion's military has three knight orders and are said to be the second most powerful nation after
Asura Kingdom
. Under the leadership of the 7 heroes and the combined forces of the Holy Knights Orders and Beast Race, Millishion is the only human kingdom that survived the Laplace Wars.
 Assassinations of other knight order members are not unusual especially those opposing factions of the Milis Relgion.

Order of the Church





Order of the Church Knights in the Anime



The Order of the Church is entrusted with matters of national defense like patrolling Millishion and arresting would be criminals. They wear white armor and are neutral on their stance in the expulsion or acceptance of the demon race.

Known Members

Belmondo Nash Venick

Belmondo is the son of Galgard and Lieutenant Commander of the Order of the Church's [Arrow Group]. He is a one-eyed man with scars on his face and is around 40 years old.
 During the conference with Pope Harry Grimoire and Rudeus, Belmondo testifies that the cardinal summons them to collect the corpse of the person who killed the Miko of Memory and damaged the country but this doesn't match the actual situation and adopts a neutral stance on the dispute.

Reilbard

Reilbard is the Battalion Commander of the Order of the Church's [Arrow Group].
 After the conference with the Pope and Rudeus, Reilbard joins Belmondo to arrest Carlyte and Claire but they were stopped by Zenith.

Order of Instruction

The Order of Instruction is a mercenary group who wears silver armor that sends young knights to areas of strife for combat experience, and at the same time is responsible for spreading the teachings of Milis to various places. Participating in one of the Order of Instruction's expeditions is a coming of age ceremony for all Holy Knights.

Known Members

Galgard Nash Venick

Galgard Nash Venick - the Grand Master of the Order of Instruction is an unrefined, taciturn man who rarely laughs. How Galgard became an acquaintance of
Ruijerd Superdia
 is unknown but in the past he had returned as a survivor of the Demon Continent expedition, and over the past few decades he's been the driving force behind the Order of Instruction being successively known as the the strongest. Since the time Galgard had become Grand Master, the survival of the Order of Instruction rose past 90% and because of numerous people he had saved, all knights hold him in respect.

Order of the Temple

"However, the Order of the Temple is a gathering of religious zealots, myself included. That's why even if we understand that there's no chance of winning, we have no choice but to fight."

-Therese Latreia






Therese Latreia wearing an Order of the Temple Armor in the Anime



The Order of the Temple are the most feared of the 3 orders due to their infamous Inquisitors, tasked with stamping out heresy. They wear blue armor and are aligned with the Demon Race Expulsion Faction of the Milis Religion.

Known Members

Miko of Memory

Leader of the Order of the Temple and candidate to be the next Pope.

Leblanc McFarlane

Cardinal of the Milis Religion who manages of the Order of the Temple and assists the Pope like a prime minister to a king.

Carlyte Latreia

Born Carlyte Granz is the Head of the Latreia House and Battalion Commander of the Order of the Temple's [Sword Group].

Therese Latreia

Company Commander of the Order of the Temple's [Anastasia Keep], the protector of the Miko of Memory.

Edgar Latreia

Eldest son of the Latreia House and Platoon Leader of the Order of the Temple who is stationed to a town west of Millishion.

Ralkan Latreia

Prevous Head of the Latreia House and Claire's father who was a Company Commander of the Order of the Temple.

Magic

Millishion has one of the most advanced Barrier Magic and Healing Magic in the world.

Barrier Magic

The Barrier Magic generated by the 7 Magic Towers is one of the reasons why Millishion is the only human kingdom that survived the Laplace Wars.
 The office of the Pope is also protected by Barrier Magic classified to be at least Saint Rank for additional security.

Healing Magic

Despite the very advance healing magic provided by Millishion's schools, most people stop learning healing magic after attaining elementary rank. If one learns healing magic to the intermediate rank, that person can work in Milis's hospital, so it is heavily favored upon in school.

Detoxification Magic

Millishion houses the book for God Rank Detoxification Magic where at least an Archbishop rank of the Great Church can access. In an alternate future,
Rudeus
 tries to learn the magic by transcribing the book but it is as thick as a dictionary so he steals the book instead.

Earldom

I'll be an earl's wife who wouldn't feel ashamed no matter where I went, and be annexed in the Holy Kingdom of Milis' nobles' list. That is my life. A [road] for the Milis' noble's daughters. But I didn't walk on that [road].

Zenith Greyrat

In addition to the royal family and the Milis Religion, Millishion is also influenced by the noble families of earls. From a young age they enter school to learn magic and/or sword techniques that would eventually lead to either taking over the head of their family, join the priesthood of the Great Church or enlist with the Holy Knight Orders.

Latreia House

A distinguished family among the earls that has deep ties with the Order of the Temple and part of the Demon Race Expulsion Faction. The head of the house is Count Carlyte Latreia married to Countess
Claire Latreia
.

Grimoire House

The most influential family of the Milis Religion and part of the Demon Race Acceptance Faction. The head of the house is Pope Harry Grimoire and the leader of the Milis Religion.

Trivia

Millishion having 7 Magic Towers follows the notion that 7 is a lucky number seen through out history. Such as the 7 Worlds, 7 heroes,
Seven Great Powers
 and 7 ranks for Sword Styles and Magic.

Gallery

The White Palace, the Holy Country of Millis' Seat of Power
Adventure Guild's Main Headquarters
The Magical Towers in the Anime
The Great Church
Residential District
Commercial District
Blacksmith Shop
Dawn of the Door Inn in the Anime
Rising Sun Inn in the Anime
Goblins - Millishion's permanent vermin problem
Eris and Ruijerd at a Millishion Bridge
1/11

References