This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!





 Map of Millis Continent



Millis Continent
 (ミリス 大陸
Mirisu Tairiku
) is the continent where the ratio of Human Race and Beast Race is 50:50, people living there follow
Milis religion
 similar to Catholics, and have a church but there are peoples who do not follow. In terms of marriage, they strictly follow the policy of monogamy.

It lies Southeast of the
Ringus Sea
.

Population

The population of Beast Race is almost the same as the Human Race. The Human settles in the West plains while the Beast Race is secluded in the eastern jungles.

The main languages spoken are the Human Tongue and Beast-God Tongue

Geography

In the north there's the Great Forest, in the south there's the Holy Milis Kingdom. Splitting those two regions is the Blue Dragon Mountain Range, with the Holy Sword Highway going straight through them from top to bottom with not a single monster on the Highway.

Holy Country of Millis

The second oldest and most powerful kingdom after the Asura Kingdom. It is the Holy Land of the world's largest faith - the
Milis Religion
.

Millishion

The capital of the Holy Country of Millis. It is said to be the most beautiful city in the world.

Great Forest

A huge woodland that occupies the northeastern half of the Continent. It is home to various races - the Beast Race resides in the northern part of the forest, Hobbits in the northwest, the Dwarves in the southwest, and the Elves to the southeast.

The forest has 3 months of torrential rain every year.

Dedoldia Village

The settlement where the Dedoldia Tribe lives.

Blue Dragon Mountain Range

The Blue Dragon Mountain Range is the border that separates the Great Forest and the Holy Country of Millis thus effectively separating the human and beast race territory. The Holy Sword Highway passes through by a gap in the mountain that is wide enough for 2 carriages to pass at the same time. Rock slides almost never happens here which is believed to be the divine power of
Saint Millis
 and one of the reasons Millis is worshipped very well.

Despite the namesake, Blue Dragons are almost never seen here since they fly all around the world, but they always return to the Blue Dragon Mountain Range for nesting and raising children. At the southern most base of the Blue Dragon Mountain Range lies a Dwarf town that is famously known as a blacksmith town because of its high quality and cheap swords and armor.

Holy Sword Highway

A road constructed by the Holy Country of Millis that crosses the continent, from West Port to Millishion and from Millishion through the Great Forest to Zant Port. Due to the story that the creation of the highway was from a single swing of Saint Millis' sword that sliced straight through the Blue Dragon Mountain Range, the Great Forest, and even cut down a Demon Lord on the Demon Continent, the road is eventually named "Holy Sword Highway". Despite the doubts on the story, the road is still bursting with
Mana
 from Saint Millis, so even if the surrounding area is flooded because the rainy season of the Great Forest, the road remains dry and further proof of that, there are absolutely no encounters with monsters even now.

Zant Port

A port located in the North of Millis Continent, where his ships travel to Wind port in the
Demon Continent
. Also known as Saint Port or Zanto Port. Before the start of the 3 months rainy season, the inns of Zant Port are usually booked in advance for a long period as travelling across the Great Forest is impossible because of floods.

West Port

A port located in the West of Millis Continent, where his ships travel to East port in the
Central Continent.

Currency

Royal Notes (50,000 yen = 500 USD)

General Notes (10,000 yen = 100 USD)

Millis Gold Coins (5,000 yen = 50 USD)

Millis Silver Coins (1,000 yen = 10 USD)

Millis Large Copper Coins (100 yen = 1 USD)

Millis Copper Coins (10 Yen = 10 cents)

Note: This section is under construction and revision>
.

Gallery

Zant Port in the Anime
Dedoldia Village during the 3 months rainy season
Emblem of the Holy Country of Millis in the Anime
Holy Sword Highway with the Seven Great Powers Monument in the Anime
Blue Dragon Mountain Range in the Anime
Holy Sword Highway's gap that goes through the Blue Dragon Mountain Range
1/6

References