This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

This page is for the List of Minor characters of Mushoku Tensei, arranged by continents.

Central Continent

Asura Kingdom

Amarant Notos Greyrat





Amarant in the Game



Amarant Notos Greyrat
 (アマラント・ノトス・グレイラット) was Paul's father and Rudeus's grandfather who is always in conflict with Paul which eventually cause the latter to relinquish his nobility and became an adventurer.

Valentina Notos Greyrat





Valentina in the Game



Valentina Notos Greyrat
 (バレンティナ・ノトス・グレイラット) was Paul's and Pilemon's mother,
Sauros Boreas Greyrat
's sister and Rudeus's grandmother, she was born with a weak body.

Augusta






Augusta in the Game



Augusta
  (オーガスタ) is an Advance Water God style instructor and
Lilia
's father and Paul's father-in-law, he has a friendly relationship with Water God
Reida Reia
.

Flute






Flute in the Game



Flute (フルート) is
Lilia
's mother and Paul's mother-in-law.

Gustaf

An information broker that was hired by Pilemon Notos Greyrat to confirm if Ariel Anemoi Asura lost her life when she ran away to Ranoa.

Alphonse






Alphonse in the Anime



Head Butler of the Boreas Family who now governs the Fittoa Refugee Camp after the
Teleport Incident
 and its rebuilding.

Voiced by:
Japanese

Nobuo Tobita
;
English
 Dalton Tindall

Edna Rayrune






Edna in the Anime



Eris
' nursing mother who also acts as her ettiquette and dance instructor.

Voiced by:
Japanese
 Kaori Nakamura;
English
 Jessica Cavanagh

Thomas






Thomas in the Anime



A butler of the Boreas family who has ties to
Darius Silva Ganius
 and plotted to take advantage of
Rudeus
' kidnapping plan of Eris.

Voiced by:
Japanese
 Shōta Yamamoto;
English
 Jordan Dash Cruz

Troubadour






Troubadour in the Manga



Troubadour is a female bard in the
Manga
 who composes songs based on the people she encounters on her journey like
Roxy
.
 She then encounters
Sylphiette
 where she witnesses her use of
Healing Magic
 with voiceless incantation and encourages her to have confidence in her magic abilities then she manages to leave Fittoa before the Teleport Incident manifests.
 Troubadour is later seen in Sharia, Ranoa Kingdom where she witnesses
Nina Farion
 who is scheming to capture Rudeus but is defeated by
Badigadi
. After Rudeus defeats Badigadi, Troubadour watches Nina depart from Sharia who was visibly shaken after witnessing the defeat of the Demon Lord with a single Stone Cannon.

Elmore Bluewolf






Elmore Bluewolf in the Manga



Elmore is a noble and Ariel's servant who accompanies her to
Ranoa Magic Academy
. At the academy, Elmore also gathers information and intelligence for Ariel aside from her servant duties and is a close friend of
Sylphiette
.

Voiced by:
Japanese

Yū Sasahara
;
English
 Kathryn Taylor Rose
[
Citation needed
]

Kleene Elrond






Kleene Elrond in the Manga



A noble and one of Ariel's companions who also attends to her daily needs. Like Elmore, she accompanies Ariel to Ranoa Magic Academy and among the survivors of the assassination attempt while travelling to there.

Voiced by:
Japanese
 Hana Sato;
English
 Emily Faith
[
Citation needed
]

Halfaus Asura

Halfaus is the second prince of Asura Kingdom that is supported by the Eurus and Zephyrus nobility although he does not have the desire to become king.
Orsted
 causes the downfall of the major nobles that supports him to weaken his will to fight on becoming king.

Bandit Leader

Unnamed leader of the Thieve's Group located at a forest bordering Asura Kingdom and Red Wyrm Mountain. Rudeus establishes contact with the Bandit Leader via passwords provided by Orsted and requests a smuggling job to be handled by one of their members:
Tina Trush
 to pass the back roads of Asura Kingdom without being ambushed by the First Prince's Faction.

Enzo Moreira






Enzo Moreira in the Manga



Enzo is a Sword Saint who trained bandits in the
Sword God Style
 that raids a village by the Holy Land of Swords.
Gal Farion
 sends Eris to kill him after receiving a letter from him.

Jed Bluewolf

Jed is the Office Head of the Asura Kingdom's Reference Room. In K485, Jed published the book Asura Kingdom's <Biography of Rudeus Greyrat> compiled from various references from Rudeus' family and famous books from various authors and kingdoms.

Couleur Elrond

Couleur is the Assistant Office Head of Asura Kingdom's Reference Room. In K485, Couleur works as a recoder for the publishing of the the book Asura Kingdom's <Biography of Rudeus Greyrat>.

James Boreas Greyrat






James in the Game



James Boreas Greyrat holds a position of Cabinet Minister in the Asura Kingdom capital who became head of the Boreas Family after Sauros decides to let his sons fight with each other with the winner becoming the head.
 After Sauros' death due to the plot of other nobles and became the scapegoat of the
Teleport Incident
, James became Feudal Lord of the
Fittoa Region
 and struggles with the rebuilding of Fittoa and the search of its citizens. James also refuses to take Eris in and plans to have her be
Pilemon Notos Greyrat
's concubine.

Gordon Boreas Greyrat

Gordon Boreas Greyrat is one of Sauros' sons who also fought to become head of the Boreas Family but he marries into the Eurus family under the manipulations of James thus ending the route of being head of the Boreas.

Nights Eye Crow

Nights Eye Crow in the Anime
Nights Eye Crow battling Sylphiette in the Anime
Nights Eye Crow in the Manga
1/3

Nights Eye Crow is a female assassin working for Darius who is notoriously known to be responsible for the death of countless Asuran Nobles. Nights Eye Crow attempted to assassinate Ariel but she was defeated by Fitts and with such achievement, Fitts is recognized capable and worthy to be Ariel's Magic Guardian.

Sharia

Febritto

Febrrito in the Anime
Febritto in the Manga
1/2

Febritto is the manager of a Slave Market in Sharia owned by the Liam Company. When Rudeus was looking for a female dwarf child they can use to make statues for Zanoba, Febritto did not recommend the child they have due to her poor health but they bought her and named her
Julie
.
 In the Anime, Febritto is not named but credited in the ending as 受付の男 lit: Receptionist.

Voiced by:
Japanese
 Yuuki Tamai

Jacqueline

Jacqueline is a specialist in the creation of
Magic Items
 in Sharia. Jacqueline is also the creator Rudeus' Signature Equipment such as Stone Cannon Gattling and Stone Cannon Shotgun.

Goliade






Goliade in the Anime



Goliade is a muscular girl studying at
Ranoa Magic Academy
 who confronted Rudeus for his apparent theft of underwear at the girl's dormitory but Fitts intervenes then threatens her to stand down so she is forced to back down.
 After Rudeus defeats Badigadi, Goliade is terrified of Rudeus like most of the students.

Voiced by:
Japanese

Kimiko Saitō

Frau “Flowing Clouds” Claudia

A statue of Frau Claudia in Ranoa Magic Academy in the Anime
A statue of Frau Claudia in Ranoa Magic Academy in the Manga
1/2

A magician from the guild “Leaves from the World’s Tree”, she planned to weaken her opposite faction by dealing with Barkol to attack them, but the plan backfired and almost resulted in her death. After being saved by
Alex
, she helped the group defeat the Emperor Dragon King. Later, she became the 56th guild leader in the Magician Guild of their generation and the first principal of the
Ranoa Magic Academy
.

Melissa






Melissa(left) in the Anime



Melissa, also known as Marissa is a female
demon
 with bird-like features such as feathers in her arms and Norn's room mate at the
dormitory
. Through Melissa's help, Norn is able to catch up with the lessons of the academy and get used to her new life in there. After Ruijerd, it was Melissa's help that changes Norn's impression towards demons from what her grandmother
Claire Latreia
 told her that they are evil creatures.

Voiced by:
Japanese
 Matsuda Risae

Norn's Teacher






Norn's Teacher(right) in the Anime



Norn's Teacher is a middle aged female Human who's name is not revealed with short gray hair who encouraged Norn to follow Rudeus' example and tells Rudeus about her previous interactions with her.

Voiced by:
Japanese
 Yaoya Kyō

Norn's Friend






Norn's Friend in the Anime



Norns friend is a female
Beast Race
 who's name is not revealed and looks like a raccoon dog with a round face, timid eyes and a bob hair cut. When Rudeus visits their classroom, she is the first to tell Rudeus about her interactions with Norn
 and on the next day, she is seen walking together with Norn.

Voiced by:
Japanese
 Inagaki Konomi;
English
 Erica Muse

Burg Adoldia






Burg Adoldia in the Anime



Burg Adoldia is one of the
Beast Race
 suitors who challenged Rudeus to marry Pursena Adoldia but is defeated by him with a Quagmire (in the Light Novel) and Stone Bullet.

Voiced by:
Japanese
 Akihiro Tajima

Grace

Grace is a royal knight tasked with guarding the ranoan pricess in her pilgrimage journey, she meet Rudeus and his party when Roxi gets tasked with helping guard the princess

Basherant

Balda

Balda of the Great Cave, also known as Balda of the Hammer because of his tendency to beat anything to shape with his hammer whether its a building or his students is a first class dwarf craftsman and a 30 year veteran architect belonging to the Magician Guild of Basherant Kingdom. Balda is an old friend of
Talhand
 and
Elinalise Dragonroad
 who heard about Rudeus of the Quagmire from them. Balda worked on the renovation and repair of the second
Greyrat Family
 Household in
Sharia
, Ranoa Kingdom which took him two weeks to complete.

Elise






Elise in the Anime



Elise is an escort in Rosenburg who greatly respects Rudeus for healing out of kindness a young girl whom Elise treats like a younger sister which non payment would otherwise result to the girl being turned to a
slave
 during his mission to gather snow. Elise also realizes that Rudeus is afflicted by impotency after separating from Eris and she is also present when Sara broke up with him. Next morning, Elise meets Sara again asking for Rudeus but Elise angrily rebukes her and tells Sara of Rudeus' ailment.

Voiced by:
Japanese

Yuka Nukui
;
English
 Corey Pettit

Conrad






Conrad in the Anime



Conrad is a seasoned adventurer in his 40 and the leader of the Rank A party Cave A Mond that comprises a Magic-Warrior and 3 Magicians where Rudeus would occasionally or temporarily join for missions. Conrad is also an Advanced Rank Fire Mage who dropped out of Ranoa Magic Academy on his fifth year and informs Rudeus that the letter he received is real and gives further details about the
Special Students
 which eventually led to Rudeus to study there.

Voiced by:
Japanese
 Kanehira Yamamoto;
English
 Adam Rowe

Kingdom of Dragon King

Chiki

Full name Chiquita, an assassin with a petite build. She was found dehydrated in the middle of a desert by
Alex
, later helped him defeat the Emperor Dragon King. She had a crush on Alex.

Shaina Marianne

She got the nickname “Death God Knight/Reaper Knight” due to her exceptional danger evasion sense and secretly being hunted by Barkol, a Chief Knight of Milis, that often leads to her teammates’ death. She saved
Alex
’s life in the fight against the Emperor Dragon King.
Randolph Marianne
 is the grandson of her and Alex.

Demon Continent

Ruviria Superdia

Ruviria Superdia
 (ルヴィーリア・スペルディア) was
Ruijerd Superdia
 First wife that lost her life in the
Human-Demon Wars
.

Guella Ha






Guella Ha in the Anime



Guella Ha is the lizard that is tamed by Ruijerd and has been the ride of the
Dead End
 party through out the Demon Continent. During their journey, Guella Ha has grown attached to Eris that would lick her head and leave her hair drenched in drool. The lizard is eventually sold and Rudeus gives the lizard the name Guella Ha before they set sail for the Millis Continent as bringing the lizard will cost additional for them.

Bagura Hagura

Is the Demon king of the city of Krasma, he have connections with the Seafolks race.

Millis Continent

Great Forest

Giger

She was the Beast God who rallied the Beast Race to defend the Great Forest. Fighting on the front lines with might and wit, Giger successfully defended the Great Forest and earned his fame as the hero of the Beast Race. In extension, the Doldia tribe descended from Giger became the royalty equivalent of the Great Forest and the guardian of the Sacred Beast.
.

Laklana






Laklana in the Anime



She is the Dedoldia Woman that take care of Rudeus when he was imprisoned in the Doldia Village. In addition to being the guardian and caretaker of the
Sacred Beast
.

Voiced by:
Japanese

Makoto Koichi
;
English
 Samantha Herek

Millishion

Harry Grimoire

Pope of the
Milis Religion
 and
Cliff Grimoire
's grandfather. After the attempted assassination on the
Miko of Memory
 had failed, the conflict between the relgion's faction intensifies. So Harry sends Cliff to Ranoa Magic Academy for refuge from the conflict.
 He meets with Rudeus who is introduced by Cliff and grants him permission to sell Ruijerd Dolls and allow the establishment of the
Rude Mercenary Company
 in Millishion.

Galgard Nash Vennik

The commander of the missionary knights of Millishion, Ruijerd saved his life in the past, he also use the nickname of Gash Broche.

Bakshiel von Wieser

A Duke that was the director of the Millis continental customs office.

Begaritt Continent

Galban

A merchant that comercialize goods between the Bazaar and Rapan

Balibadom

The head of Galban guards that protect the caravan, aka "Hawkeye" due to his
demon eye
 ability to sense monsters from far away.

Tont✝

One of the guards that protect the caravan of Galban, died in bandit attack.

Carmelita

One of the guards that protect the caravan of Galban, aka "The Bonecrusher" and had a child with Tont.

Dragon World

Gora and Scrubava

Gora and Scrubava are Dragon Warriors from the Steel
Dragon Tribe
 who were recruited by
Maxwell
 to join his unit and later become subordinates of
Laplace
 and joins his search for
Crystal
's killer.
 They were both killed by Necrolia Nacrolia who found his hideout while battling along with Laplace.

Necrolia Nacrolia

Necrolia Nacrolia is a demon with dark skin, four arms and red eyes who is one of the Eight Great Demon Kings and son of the
Demon God
 who orders him to stop the progress of the Dragon Tribe's Teleportation Research. Nacrolia manages to kill Crystal but is unable to teleport back to the Demon World due to a flaw in planning and is gathering materials to return but he is captured by Laplace and turned over to
Szilard
.

Demon World

Kirisis Calisis

Demon Emperor Kirisis Calisis is the wife of the First Demon God and the mother of
Kishirika Kishirisu
. Kirisis is a brilliant magician and the inventor of
Magic Circles
 and Laplace mentions her to be the source of all the magic known today. When the Gods agreed to foster cooperation between the Six Worlds, Calisis did her best to serve the
Dragon World
 and because of her intelligent, competent and calm personality which reminds them of
Lunaria
, many of the Dragon Tribe change their perceptions toward demons. In addition to both being fellow wives of Gods, Calisis and Lunaria become close friends because they share similar personalities and this would gradually diminish the hostility of the Dragon World towards the Demon World.

Necross Lacross

Immortal Demon King Necross Lacross is one of the Eight Great Demon Kings of the Demon World and the father of
Badigadi
 and
Atoferatofe Raibaku
. After the Gods agreed to foster cooperation between the Six Worlds and he worked together with Laplace to recruit collaborators from the Six Worlds to help advance each of their civilizations and maintain the peace.
 During the war between the Dragon World and Demon World, Necross is imprisoned after being accused of collaborating with Laplace to kill Kirisis and is thrown to prison. Necross managed to break out of prison and finds the Demon World on the verge of collapse and tries to escape with the Demon God's baby but he was found by Laplace and asks that he let them go while protecting the baby. Laplace lets them go and directs them to a portal to the Human World after hearing his story.

Other

Al Farion

Human race. The First Sword God, active around the time of the First North God. Implied to be an ancestor of
Gal Farion
.

Reidar

The first Water God, double god tier in sword and magic (Water God Class Magician). Saved a kingdom from a Water Dragon King but the king broke the promise and refused to let him marry the princess, who left the kingdom on her own and eloped with him. Thus formed the traditions that the Water Gods would adopt the name Reidar (if male) or
Reida
 (if female), and their spouses need to give up their family.

Rodriguez






Rodriguez in the Anime



The third disciple of
Auber Corvette
 that
Dead End
 Party meets on their way to Wind port.

Voiced by:
Japanese
 Hayato Fujii;
English
 Austin Sisk

Largon Hargon

Underground Demon King Largon Hargon is one of the Great Demon Kings at the service of Great Demon Empress Kishirika Kishirisu who fought at the First
Human-Demon Wars
. He is a God Ranked Earth Magician who created the Galgau Ruins beyond the reach of humans and creates underground tunnels and roads for ambush.

Feroze Star

Feroze Star is an Emperor Rank Fire Magician and one of the 7 heroes who fought in the
Human-Demon Wars
 with Perugius. Feroze was worried that he might not be able to return before leaving for battle so he names his unborn son after him. Feroze dies in battle against Demon King Ryner Kaizel and his final moments thinking of his unborn son that he will never meet. His son inherited his name and his legacy but stories about him is mixed such as he became a magnificent magician in his own right and some stories say that he became a good for nothing nobody. Feroze Star's tale is known by everyone that naming an unborn child before going on a journey would bring a terrible disaster.

Big Bro






Big Bro in the Manga



"Big Bro" is a young man who is observing Soldat Heckler until he gets attacked by a bird monster and tells Soldat to call him "Big Bro". He later brings him to their settlement and to an old man who plans to teach
Swordsmanship
 to Soldat.

Unnamed Old Adventurer






Big Bro in the Manga



Soldat is raised and trained by an Old Adventurer who also lives in the dumps and walks with 2 peg legs. Upon seeing Soldat he immediately takes a liking to him and trains him in the sword.

Reference