Mushoku Tensei: Jobless Reincarnation
 (無職転生 〜異世界行ったら本気だす〜
Mushoku Tensei: Isekai Ittara Honki Dasu
, lit. "Jobless Reincarnation: I Will Seriously Try If I Go to Another World"), abbreviated as
Mushoku Tensei
 (無職転生), is a Japanese light novel series written by
Rifujin na Magonote
 with illustrations by
Shirotaka
. The series originally started as a web-based novel series in late 2012 uploaded by the author on the website
Shosetsuka ni Naro
; following its success on the site's popularity it was acquired by
Kadokawa
 within the following year under their publishing house
Media Factory
, and officially began its publication as a light novel series in early 2014 under the
MF Books
 label.

Seven Seas Entertainment
 licensed the light novel under their
Airship
 imprint for English localization on July 18, 2018, following large requests in their monthly reader survey. The digital edition of the first volume was launched early on April 4, 2019 while paperback edition was released on May 21, 2019. In March 2021, the first nine English volumes were revised for a more legitimate translation.

Story

Plot

An unnamed 34-year-old Japanese NEET is evicted from his home following his parents' death. Upon some self-introspection, he concludes that his life was ultimately pointless. Walking down a street he intercepts a speeding truck heading towards a group of teenagers, in an attempt to do something meaningful for once in his life he manages to pull one of them out of harm's way before getting himself in the way of the truck and dying. Awakening in a baby's body, he realizes he has been reincarnated in a world of sword and sorcery. He resolves to become successful in his new life, discarding his past identity for his new life as Rudeus Greyrat. Due to inherited affinity and early training, Rudeus becomes highly skilled at magic with help from his previous life's intuitions. During his childhood, he becomes a student of a demon magician Roxy Migurdia, a friend to half-elf Sylphiette, and a tutor to noble heiress Eris Boreas Greyrat. Rudeus tries his best to live this new life with no regrets to leave behind.

Setting

The story is set in a hexahedral world referred to as the
Six-Faced World
. A fantastical world with each side inhabitated by various races: the Dragon World of the Dragon race; the Demon World of the Demon race; the Sky World of the Skyfolks; the Beast World of the Beastfolks; the Sea World of the Seafolks; the Human World of the Human race; there also exists the seventh world - the Void World where nothing exists and is a channel connecting the six worlds. All the five worlds, however, with the exception of the Void World have been destroyed and now only the Human World remains where all the survivors of the other world fled to. As a result, the Human World has been filled with a variety of races with language and culture distinct to region regarding the history of that place.

The protagonist reincarnates into the Human World in an era that is similar to the
Middle Ages
. And as a result of being born in the Six-Faced World, where every living being is birthed infused with
Mana
, Rudeus is granted the ability to use
Magic
.

Characters

Main Category:
Characters

Rudeus Greyrat
: Before his reincarnation, he was an overweight 34-year-old Japanese NEET who became a recluse following his high school persecution. After his reincarnation, he discards his past identity and works to make his new life as Rudeus Greyrat meaningful. As such, he adopts a calm persona, though his past life's perversion sometimes emerges and scares those around him.

Roxy Migurdia
: A demon from the Migurdia species known for their telepathy, blue hair, youthful appearance, and longevity. Because she can't use telepathy, she leaves her village due to feeling isolated from her peers. Unable to make a stable living as an adventurer, she becomes a traveling tutor and eventually becomes Rudeus' teacher.

Sylphiette
: Rudeus' childhood friend who is part human, elf, and beast race. Due to her
Laplace Factor
, a genetic material granting its owners enhanced magical abilities if trained at a young age, her hair is green. Rudeus' influence helped her learn how to cast magic without chanting.

Eris Boreas Greyrat
: A noble girl and distant relative of Rudeus. She is short tempered and violent but has potential in the
Sword God Style
. After Rudeus manages to gain her trust, she becomes a student under him learning how to read and write along with Magic. Slowly, during the years she spends with Rudeus she grows to have feelings for him.

Media

Web Novel

Original novel series on which the light novel is based on. A total of 286 chapters in the main storyline were written within November 22, 2012, and April 3, 2015 which was hosted for free-reading on
Shosetsuka ni Naro
.

Light Novel

Novel series with approximately the same plot as the web-version, featuring illustrations by Shirotaka. Officially being published by
Media Factory
 ever since January 23, 2014, it is currently ongoing with 24 volumes released.

Manga

Manga series based on the light novel, it is illustrated by
Yuka Fujikawa
. It has been serialized in Media Factory's
Monthly Comic Flapper
 seinen magazine since May 2, 2014 and is currently ongoing with 15 volumes released.

Drama CD

Drama based on the Labyrinth arc of light novel
volume 12
. It was published by
Frontier Works
 on April 26, 2017.

Video Game

Smartphone
gacha
-RPG with story-campaign up to light novel
volume 3
 and other scenarios supervised by the author. It is developed by
Aiming
 and was released on March 27, 2021 for Android and iOS.

Anime

Anime series adaptation based on the light novel, it is produced by
Egg Firm
 and directed by Manabu Okamoto and Hiroki Hirano at
Studio Bind
. The first episode aired on January 10, 2021 and is currently ongoing with second cour arriving in October 2021.

Music

Original soundtracks of the anime adaptation is composed by Yoshiaki Fujisawa. The first album was released on April 21, 2021 and the second album is scheduled to release on January 19, 2022. All opening theme songs and the ending theme song were performed by Yuiko Ohara.

References

External Links

Original web novel

Official light novel website

Official manga website

Official anime website

Wikipedia article
 (English)

Wikipedia article
 (Japanese)