Information

Story

Relationships

Appearance

Friends

Shinohara Akihito





Nanahoshi and Akihito in the Anime



Aikihito is Nanahoshi's friend in Japan. When Nanahoshi is transported to the
Human World
, she also begins searching for his friends with Orsted. Although Nanahoshi considers the possibility that he isn't in the
Human World
, she is also working on finding a way back to Japan.

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Rudeus Greyrat

Rudeus and Nanahoshi researching Teleportation Magic in the Anime
Rudeus telling Nanahoshi of his journey to the Teleportation Labyrinth
Rudeus tending to Nanahoshi while in his home
Nanahoshi showing Rudeus a Teleportation Ruins to Begaritt Continent
1/4

Rudeus and Nanahoshi first meets Rudeus at the Dragon Wyrm Mountain when she was travelling with Orsted who easily defeats him and his party. At Nanahoshi's request, Orsted heals Rudeus' wounds that would otherwise kill him. Nanahoshi and Rudeus meet again at
Ranoa Magic Academy
  where the latter tried to flee in panic but they were able to clear the misunderstanding and they agreed to work together with Fitts on her research. Nanahoshi and Rudeus were able to get along well since they were both Japanese. Rudeus cares for Nanahoshi that when she falls into depression, Rudeus brings her to his
home
 to nurse him to health
 and when Nanahoshi is afflicted by
Drain Syndrome
, Rudeus searches for a cure and manages to do so and encourages her to keep finding a way to return home.

When Rudeus decides to go to the
Begaritt Continent
, to rescue her mother
Zenith
, Nanahoshi tells him the location of a Teleportation Ruins that takes his journey to Begaritt and back to be only 4 months instead of 1 year which Rudeus is grateful as he is able to make it back for Sylphy to give birth to Lucy.

Due to their apparent closeness and how Nanahoshi seems to comfortably talk with Rudeus in japanese, people around them believe that they will become lovers but Nanahoshi denies this
 while Zanoba concludes that Rudeus' interaction with Nanahoshi is more like how Rudeus interacts with his
younger

sisters
.

Through her cooperation with Rudeus, they are known through out the
Human World
 for their ground-breaking inventions such as the creation of the Magic Potion, which also ended the period where Swordsmen are considered the strongest and the Teleportation Magic Circles that made travelling through different nations faster and safer but only Rudeus is blamed by the
Milis Church
 to be <The Person who broke the Taboo>.

When Nanahoshi is put in Time Stasis where she only wakes up every 30 days, Rudeus among those who will visit her and give her japanese food made by Aisha with the ingredients of the Human World and Rudeus would also give her additional letters for his family in Japan about his life in the Human World and also would consult with Nanahoshi about how to interact with her daughters like with
Lucy Greyrat
 who eventually grows up and marries
Clive Grimoire
. Nanahoshi keeps these letters with her and is not sure if delivering these letters will suffice for everything that Rudeus has done for her but she intends to tell Rudeus' family on earth of how Rudeus took care of her without leaving a single detail.

Sylphiette





Fitz attacking Nanahoshi in the Anime



Nanahoshi and Sylphiette are acquaintances and although Sylphiette is shown to be uneasy towards Nanahoshi due to his apparent closeness to Rudeus they still get along and Sylphiette would also help in doing Nanahoshi's research.
 While Rudeus was away at the
Teleportation Labyrinth
, Sylphiette also took care of Nanahoshi by bringing her meals, helping with shopping, casting
Detoxification Magic
 when she got sick and also letting her stay in the Greyrat house to use the bath and in return, Nanahoshi allows Sylphiette,
Ariel Anemoi Asura
 and
Luke Notos Greyrat
 to accompany her when she goes to see Perugius.

Linia Dedoldia





Nanahoshi and Linia in the Manga



Nanahoshi initially doesn't plan to make friends with anyone in the Human World, Nanahoshi eventually became friends with Rudeus and the rest of the Special Students. During the celebration of Nanahoshi's research completion, Linia doesn't seem to mind that Nanahoshi is fondling her ears and later took her back to her room when Nanahoshi is completely drunk.

Aisha Greyrat

Aisha and Nanahoshi became friends ever since Nanahoshi started visiting Rudeus' house.
 Nanahoshi gave advice that they need uniforms and manners to succeed when Aisha establishes the
Rude Mercenary Company
 and also agreed to sponsor them.

After Nanahoshi's return magic to Earth failed, Nanahoshi is placed in a sleeping state where she only wakes up once a month. When she is awake, Aisha's cooking based from food from earth through trial and error such as Yaki Onigiri, Miso Udon, Sandwich and Takoyaki are delivered by Rudeus to Nanahoshi where they usually eat together until Nanahoshi sleeps again for that month.

Other

Perugius Dola

Perugius became Nanahoshi's teacher for her research of summoning magic and circles after Nanahoshi is able to conduct Summoning from another world with the help of Rudeus and his friends. When Nanahoshi falls ill with Drain Syndrome, Perugius uses one of his familiars to discover the disease and stop her time but refuses to assist beyond this since his purpose is to prepare for the return of
Laplace
.

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Orsted

Nanahoshi and Orsted travelling together in the Anime
Nanahoshi and Orsted in the Manga
Nanahoshi and Orsted encountering Dead End Party in the Light Novel
1/3

After Nanahoshi is transported to the Human World during the
Teleport Incident
, Orsted is the first person she meets and they started traveling together and teaches her all the basic knowledge of the world and bringing her to the various Dragon Tribe Ruins that has a teleportation circle. After an undefined number of years, he left her in Ranoa Magic Academy.

Like Rudeus, she is immune to the Orsted curse of feel fear to him.

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Anne

Nanahoshi: "Well, its fine. So, what's her name?"
 Rudeus: "We haven't come up with one yet."

Anne is an automaton doll that is based from Nanahoshi's facial appearance but with shorter hair. Although Nanahoshi was initially displeased on the initial reason on why Anne is created by Rudeus Nanahoshi, Nanahoshi gives her the name "Anne" is officially designated as Automaton SS-01 Anne where SS stands for Seven Star, the meaning of Nanahoshi's Japanese name while the rest of the automaton doll are referred to as the Seven Star Series Anne. Incase Nanahoshi's friends ever appear, the dolls were also given a name "Nanahoshi Hajime" and should one of them ever meet one of her friends after saying that name, the doll would proceed to tell her relationship to Nanahoshi.

References