"Even if you ask me how... Since you'll win as long as your sword is
the faster one, there's no need for stuff like bloodlust, right?"

Nina to Eris and Isolte

Information

Relationships

Nina Farion
 is the daughter of the previous Sword God,
Gal Farion
, as well as the wife of the current Sword God,
Jino Britts
.

Appearance

She is a beautiful girl, with flowing dark blue hair gathered behind her. She has a modest bust, and a well toned physique. Her battle attire consists of A silver breastplate, complete with pauldrons on her shoulders and a pair of fingerless gauntlets. She wears metal greaves, while leaving her upper legs exposed save for the blue tabard she wears beneath her breastplate which drapes over her thighs. She keeps her sword attatched to her belt, on her back. She also wears a fur-lined cape over her armor when traveling in harsher climates.  Her overall appearance makes her seem dignified.

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Personality

Nina was initially a proud and conceited young woman who had idealistic and naïve expectations about life, very much like a frog in a well. She slowly changed after meeting and losing to
Eris
, and her later encounter with
Badigadi
 and
Rudeus
. During her training with Eris and
Isolte Cruel
, her paradigms were shifted as she learnt more about the true meaning of strength and the Sword God Style.

Her unusual calmness was judged by
Reida Reia
 to indicate potential in the
Water God Style
, albeit Nina is adamant on only practicing the
Sword God Style
. Like her father, she's also rather impatient and assertive, as indicated by her marriage proposal to Jino and swift invitation to her bedroom afterward.

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Background

Nina Farion was raised up in the Holy Land of Swords, being the eldest daughter of the Sword God, Gal Farion. She was a prodigy who attained Sword Saint rank when she was 16, and was speculated to advance to Sword King and Sword Emperor when she turned 20 and 25 respectively.

During her childhood, Nina is also forbidden to enter the Sword God Style Main House and formed a secret organization with Jino and the children of her age during their breaks from training but later gets disbanded when Nina and Jino became Sword Saints at the same time where their growth was considered to be quite fast.

Despite her being Gal Farion's eldest daughter, she was taught instead by Sword Emperor
Timothy Britts
. She has been practicing with the sword since a very young age, the Sword God Style being all she knew about the world.

Plot

Nina was introduced as an opponent for
Eris
 in Volume 8. Nina was angry that Eris pre-emptively attacked Jino before their duel even began, and vowed to kill Eris during her duel. When the duel began, Nina was able to break Eris's sword and expected the victory, but instead was beaten unconscious by Eris' fists and kicks. Being shamed in front of her peers, she began to hate Eris and began a rivalry with her.

Nina was unable to find time for her rivalry and to be in contact with Eris since seemed to be constantly busy with training with
Ghislaine Dedoldia
 and Gal Farion. Nina tried once to isolate Eris from the rest of the students but it failed since Eris shows no interest in making friends and barely talks to anyone. In another attempt to get back on Eris, Nina tells her that she would never find a man if she is always so dedicated to training, which Eris denies and says that she already had a man and their conversation turned Eris showing off her love story with Rudeus, which Nina envies and believes that she lost even in love. Nina comes to the conclusion that Eris must be lying and goes off to investigate Rudeus.

Nina is shocked by the information which easily floods in about Rudeus and his accomplishments; she starts to doubt the rumors and sets the goal to beat Eris by beating the man she looks up to and enslave him. Nina sets her goal and heads to
Ranoa Magic Academy
 to find Rudeus, and follows some Dedoldia beast men who were also looking to defeat Rudeus at the time. Nina is able to find Rudeus and finds that another Beast man has beaten her to the punch and challenges Rudeus, which he beats him within an instant to Nina's shock thinking that mages are weak in close quarters combat.






Nina vs Badigadi



Attempting to challenge Rudeus again, Nina finds him later to find that there are many more beast men challenging him and she is put in the back of the line. That's when Badigadi shows up and trying to cut to the front by challenging all the combatants in line already, for some reason Nina finds herself attacking the Demon King and is easily cast aside and her sword broken. Rudeus comes out and has his duel with Badigadi which Nina spectates and is shocked by the power he demonstrates. When Nina returns, she starts to understand the power that Eris strives to attain and resolves to become stronger... and carry another sword in case her sword breaks again.

When Reida and Isolte arrives at the Holy Land of Swords, Nina escorts them to Gal who discuss to them his plans on Eris' sword training. Nina asks if he can also join the training to which Gal permits and tells him to get Eris. After numerous sparring between Eris and Isolte where Eris could not land a blow on Isolte, Nina also spars with Isolte and she was able to defeat her. Noting her unusual calmness for a Sword God Style user, Reida asks Nina if she likes to train in Water God Style as well but Nina declines.  Gal and Reida then have an agreement that from dawn to noon, Nina, Eris and Isolte will train with their respective teachers then from noon to dusk, the three will practice and train together.

One month later, a strange triple deadlock has formed where Eris beats Nina, Nina beats Isolte and Isolte beats Eris. On one of the three's discussions, Eris reveals that her constant release of blood lust is actually a high level technique of the
Superd Tribe
 that
Ruijerd Superdia
 taught her, to which Isolte points out that Eris intentionally provokes her opponent to attack. During this time, Nina improves her sword technique with Eris and Isolte's help and grew close to them.

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Power and Abilities

『Sword Emperor』
She has prowess comparable to Eris', if not slightly weaker. However, she possesses the ability to not emit any bloodlust or killing intent that is rare among Sword God Style swordsmen, which allowed Nina to repeatedly defeat Isolte, whom Eris struggled to even keep up with. She has become a Sword Emperor as of the Redundancy Chapter.

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Equipment

Unnamed Swords






Nina Farion's equipment in the Light Novel



Nina wields a curved sword featuring a knuckle bow. She wears this sword horizontally across her back, secured loosely below her belt. Additionally, following her encounter with
Badigadi
, Nina carries a second, shorter sword, which is sheathed above her primary one.

Achievements

Sword Emperor

Quotes

"That's true. Please go easy on me."

Eris: "Nina, you read it!"

Nina: "Eh? I can't read words either."

Eris: "What? If you can't read words when you need to, then you'll be in trouble!"

Nina: "Even though you say that so arrogantly, you can't even read it yourself!"

Trivia

Nina was interested in Jino Britts, partly due to her finding out that Eris was not a virgin and not wanting to lose to her.

Nina casually proposed to Jino Britts, which he accepts and the two get married.

Like most people in the Holy Land of Swords, Nina cannot read.

Reference