This article
lacks information
 and requires expansion. Please
expand this page
 to include missing information to help improve the article.

Nokopara
 is a rank-C-adventurer. He previously formed
a party
 with
Blaze
 and
Roxy Migurdia
.

Appearance

Nokopara has the appearance of a muscular man with the head of a horse.

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Personality

He is clever and found out about
Rudeus
' job trading scheme. He is also greedy and not afraid to blackmail
Dead End
 in order to get some extra money, only being stopped by
Ruijerd
's intimidating revelation. He's known for teasing people such as with
Roxy Migurdia
.

Background

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Plot

Entry-Level Adventurers arc

He recommended
Rudeus
 to take the pet rescue quest when he first went to the adventurer's guild in
Rikarisu.
 He also tried to extort money out of
Dead End
 by blackmailing them after finding out that they traded jobs with P-hunters, but
Ruijerd
's intervention halted it.

Later he meets up with
Roxy
 and suggests that she visits her family.

He later reunites with Elinalise and Rudeus but Nekopara doesn't remember him, he decides to help them on their quest of finding Kishirika and eventually tell the group about
Atoferatofe
 and about how she is also looking for her.

Power and Abilities

Nokopara is weak in combat, but is clever and cunning enough to establish a extensive underground information network in Rikarisu. He is able to dig out people's weakness to blackmail them, or gather comprehensive information for a particular subject in a short amount of time.

Equipment

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Achievements

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Quotes

To Ruijerd:
 “I-I’m sorry! I h-had no idea you were the real deal! P-please, don’t kill me! Please!”

Trivia

Nokopara's race is supposed to be one of the
Beast Races
, but classified as Demon Race due to siding with
Kishirika
 during the Great Human-Demon Wars.

References