This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

Information

Story

Relationships

Appearance

Family Members

Paul Greyrat

Norn has a great amount of love and respect for her father and was with him the longest out of the two sisters after the Metastasis Event scattered them, she was with him for most of that time.

Following his descent into depression, Norn remained respectful and understanding towards him and hated it when her brother Rudeus beat her father down during their first meeting. She refused to reconcile with Rudeus even after Paul admitted to being the one at fault. She ultimately wanted to go with Paul to save her mother, even though she knew she'd be a burden, because she didn't want to go to her grandmother, who she hates, or her brother, who she hates and fears. Regardless Paul sent her off to her brother's instead.

When news arrived that the rescue party was in need of help, but Rudeus didn't move to provide aid, Norn tried to go to their father herself despite not knowing how to get there or having the skills to even survive the trip, so Rudeus chose to go in her stead. When Rudeus later returned with news of Paul's death, she was heartbroken. The item she inherited from her father was his
favorite sword
 that she keeps in her room and would pray for her father from there. She has since begun training in swordsmanship under her brother and later his third wife Eris and also seeks to become an adventurer just like her father before her.

Zenith Greyrat

Zenith is Norn's biological mother and inherited lots of her features such as her hair color, body figure and her faith in the
Milis Religion
. Despite Zenith becoming unresponsive, due to being a Miko, Norn would still greet her as she leaves for school and would also talk about various things with her such as her life at school.

Rudeus Greyrat

Rudeus seeing Norn off in the Anime
Norn realizing how Rudeus really cares about her in the Anime
Norn and Rudeus studying together in the Anime
Norn confronting Rudeus for deciding to make Roxy her second wife
Norn sword training with Rudeus in the Anime
1/5

Rudeus is Norn's older brother whom she does not know of since he left when she was a baby and only hear stories and praises about him from his parents. When she first meets her brother in
Millishion
, he was violently beating up their father after their reunion. The results of this brought her to hate her brother, despite her father later telling her that he was also in the wrong and that they had reconciled. She didn't want anything to do with her brother, and when her father went to rescue her mother, she wanted to go with him instead, but she was instead sent to her brother's house in
Sharia
.

Her hatred for Rudeus turned to fear gradually during the trip partly because their guard, Rujierd, a close friend of Rudeus, constantly praised her brother, as did her sister Aisha. She feared that perhaps, as Rudeus once hit her father, he might be violent and hit her as well. Upon their reunion she found Rudeus returning after a night out drinking with his wife
Sylphy
, the exact image he once beat up their father for, and scorned him more. This reaches the point where she chooses to remain in the dorms rather than her brother's house, and she interprets his readiness to send her there as proof he doesn't want her around.

However, while at the magical academy, she finds several people praising her brother's personality and skills where she also gets compared to him most of the time. She learns that he's become something like the don of the school, assembling all of the delinquent students under him but is respected by everyone because he effectively brought order to this lot and keeps them from causing trouble. Finally realizing that her brother might not be the kind of horrible person she imagined, she becomes a recluse and refuses to leave her room. Rudeus himself sneaks into the girl's dorm to talk with her here, and they reconcile at long last.

When Norn tried to go and help their father who is still in the
Begaritt Continent
, despite not knowing how to get there or how to survive the trip, Rudeus went in her stead. He returned with a missing arm, news of their father's death, and their mother, who was in a mentally invalid condition. The shock of this greatly affected her, but she didn't speak ill of her brother after seeing his missing arm and realizing that it must've been caused by the battle.

She does take issue when Rudeus proposes making
Roxy
 his second wife, due to being a devout Milis believer and having previously proclaimed how she wanted an honest marriage like her brother and Sylphy did, however she was silenced by Sylphy herself, who notes that they aren't
Milis believers
 and is apparently okay with the arrangement. While this has disillusioned her a bit, it seems she's ultimately come to accept it over time as her brother's private matters. When
Eris
 later becomes Rudeus' third wife, she is staggeringly quick to accept it since it's already happened before.

She later asks Rudeus to teach her swordsmanship, and continues with it despite the harshness of his lessons. She states to him that her ultimate goal is to become an adventurer, and he notes that while he won't stop her he will be worried about her safety.

By the request of the Dragon God Orsted, she was bethrothed. Though initially somewhat reluctant, she gleefully accepted the arrangement at the mention of Ruijerd Superdia being her soon to be. As Rudeus prepared the wedding, she prayed, reflecting back on her past and on her relationship with Rudeus, whomst she akinned to fullfilling both the motherly and fatherly role in her life, as he was always with her and always supported her through thick and thin. During the ceremony, she cried about her gratitude towards Rudeus, fully accepting and loving him as her brother whomst she could always rely on.

Lilia Greyrat

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Aisha Greyrat

Aisha is Norn's younger half-sister. Since young, Norn had constantly been compared to her, especially by her grandmother who told her that, as the legitimate daughter, she should always be superior to her. However, this proved to be impossible, as Aisha was a genius who could do anything she set her mind to. As a result, those around Norn constantly told her to be more like Aisha, causing her to develop an inferiority complex. On top this, Norn's personal relationship with Aisha was also not good, as the two often scuffled.

Unbeknownst to Norn, however, Aisha also had an inferiority complex toward her, believing that, as she was the legitimate daughter, their relatives loved her more.

Ultimately, after Norn overcame her inferiority complex, she and Aisha made up and are now on much better terms with each other and she would finally beat her at something many years later: being the first to get married.

In a deleted chapter about Aisha's affair with Ars, a child of Rudeus and Eris, she could never forgive her and was, together with Rudeus, strongly against the relationship. Though Rudeus reluctantly accepted the engagement, Norn has still not forgiven her.

Claire Latreia

﻿She does not seem to like her maternal grandmother﻿ due to Claire's strict attitude and education. During Paul's depression, Claire wanted to take Norn away from him forcibly but was talked down by her husband. Claire does love Norn, and had high expectations of her, but she ultimately failed to mold her in any way to her ideal image of a noble lady. She warned Norn not to become an adventurer like her mother, which finally insulted Norn enough to alienate her.

In truth Claire loves Norn and Zenith, despite outwardly appearing to hate Norn for being inferior to Aisha, and Zenith for disobeying her and becoming an adventurer. She wanted to tell Norn to just do her best and not compare herself to Aisha, but she failed to relay those thoughts. She also wanted Zenith to return and acknowledges that Zenith, contrary to her expectations early on, would've been a great mother to Norn if given the chance.

Ruijerd Superdia





Norn and Ruijerd's wedding



Norn first met Rujierd when he was escorting her brother and Eris back to the former's home. Still being fearful of her brother at the time after he got into a fight with her father, he was the only one of his companions who she felt comfortable around.

When Paul decides to have Norn to start living with Rudeus in
Sharia
, Norn vehemently refuses to go and runs away but she is saved by Ruijerd. Ruijerd agreed to be her escort to which Norn reluctantly agreed. From Ruijerd’s introduction, she develops an obvious crush, feeling like a fairytale princess rescued by her knight, enchanted by his smile and third eye bathed in sunlight.
 Over the course of their journey together, the shy Norn came to clearly rely on the protective Ruijerd and when she is unable to sleep Ruijerd would tell her stories about his past and the Superd Race. Ultimately though, the two were forced to part ways after their journey was complete. Norn, still scared of her brother, initially didn't want to be separated from Ruijerd, but he managed to convince her to at least give her brother a chance.
 Norn also begins working with Rudeus in restoring the honor and reputation of Ruijerd and the Superds and through the stories Ruijerd told her, she writes a book that helped the people learn the truth of Ruijerd's history.

Many years later and during the events of Biheiril Kingdom, Norn is deeply shaken by the news of Ruijerd’s condition, recalling their past together, his kindness, the stories he shared, and the comfort he gave her. Despite her overwhelming desire to help him, Norn chooses to stay with Lucy, who is distressed from being left alone. However, when Lucy learns the full story, she urges Norn to go help Ruijerd and so Norn finally decides to leave, determined to be there for Ruijerd, just as he had always been there for her.

Upon arriving at Ruijerd's house she nurses and looks after the sick Ruijerd. When Ruijerd recovers she's so happy that she hugs him and starts sobbing and hiccuping with a flushed flace. They stuck together in times of rest, Norn being taught many things by Ruijerd and Norn constantly looking to cook him food. When it was time to return to Sharia, the shy Norn wanted to give a memento to Ruijerd, but Ruijerd tells her that he'll never forget her.

In
K431
, Orsted orders Rudeus to arrange for Norn's marriage with Ruijerd much to Rudeus' surprise. After Rudeus talks to Norn, she immediately tells Rudeus that she accepts the marriage to make the arrangements immediately. The two got married in a Superd and Milis style wedding and had a child they named
Luicelia Superdia
.

Sylphiette

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Roxy Migurdia

Note: This section is under construction and revision

Eris Boreas Greyrat

Note: This section is under construction and revision

Friends and Associates

Cliff Grimoire

"Study hard and learn your magic. It will be a great relief to your brother Rudeus and your father, where ever they might be... In the end, you pray. Saint Milis is always watching over us."

Cliff Grimoire to Norn

Norn knows that Cliff is one of Rudeus' acquaintances from the Ranoa Magic Academy and also attended Cliff and
Elinalise Dragonroad
's wedding ceremony. They formally talked when Norn was in tears in the Milis Church in Sharia due to her uneasiness for forcing Rudeus to journey to the
Begaritt Continent
 in her stead to help Paul in rescuing Zenith. Because of them both being followers of the
Milis Religion
, Norn is able to open up to Cliff about her worries and taking to heart the advice of Cliff, Norn now has a goal to achieve while waiting for Rudeus and their family to return.

Melissa





Melissa(left) in the Anime



Norn's room mate and best friend. Through Melissa's help, Norn is able to catch up with the lessons of the academy and get used to her new life in there. After Ruijerd, it was Melissa's help that changes Norn's impression towards demons from what her grandmother
Claire Latreia
 told her that they are evil creatures.

Others

References