Mezame no Uta
 (目覚めの唄 lit. "Awakening Song") is the second opening theme of the
Mushoku Tensei
 anime performed by Yuiko Ōhara. It was released as a digital single on March 15, 2021.

The song was first used in the anime as the opening theme song for
Episode 10
. The song does not have a special video-animation sequence for the credits as it is integrated into real-time scenes of the story, and varies for every episode.

Creditless opening videos for episodes 10 and 11 were included in the
Blu-ray Chapter 2
 release.

Lyrics

Romaji
English
Wasururu koto wa nakare to daichi wo hau wa ikazuchi mune

Madoromu hoshi mo mezamete furisosogu ya no you ni iru

Ibuki wo ataeshi mono no kaeri wo inorou

Kazoekirenu yamiyo ni

Meguru toki wo shirasu kono uta yo

Taenaku anata ni sasagemashou

Karehateta shikai no wazuka na namida mo

Nozomu hi made nokoshite nokoshite

Setsuna ni moyuru hinoko wo abite

Ikinukeba otozure toki

Kurushiki hibi ya nikushimi mo

Kagayaku yurushi wo eru

Rinne wo wataru hoshi no kodomo yo

Sadame ni shitagaete

Meguru toki wo shirasu kono uta yo

Taenaku anata ni sasagemashou

Konoyo no shinjitsu ni sukui wo tou tabi

Inori wo komete

Meguru toki wo shirasu kono uta yo

Taenaku anata ni sasagemashou

Michibiki wo matazu to haruka na kako kara

Togiresasenu inori yo inori yo
You must not forget, the sound of lightning crawling upon the earth.

The sleeping stars awaken as well, raining down like arrows.

In the uncountable dark nights let us pray for the return of the thing which gives us breath.

This song, which knows the of the revolving time, I will endlessly give to you.

The small tears in the dried up field of vision, I will leave them as well, I will leave them.

Burn in an instant, bathe in the grains of fire,

If you survive, in the coming time,

The days of suffering and the hatred as well, you will receive the shining permission.

You will cross the endless cycle of life and death, child of the stars,

Follow your fate.

This song, which knows of the revolving time, I will endlessly give to you.

When you ask for saving from the truth of this world,

Make a prayer.

This song, which knows of the revolving time, I will endlessly give to you.

Without waiting for guidance, a prayer from the far past you cannot let be stopped, a prayer.

Videos

目覚めの唄
Audio Release
TVアニメ『無職転生』第12話ノンクレジットOPムービー／OPテーマ：「目覚めの唄」大原ゆい子
Episode 12 Creditless Video
TVアニメ『無職転生』第13話ノンクレジットOPムービー／OPテーマ：「目覚めの唄」大原ゆい子
Episode 13 Creditless Video

Sources

Mushoku Tensei OP/ED Page

VGMdb

Lyrics:
AnimeSongLyrics