This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

This is all in preparation for the war which will take place in 80 to 100 years. I will organize the Anti-Hitogami faction, gathering men to defeat Laplace and support Orsted. I'll create Orsted's armed forces.

Rudeus Greyrat

ORSTED Corporation
 is an organization founded by Rudeus that gather forces to support Orsted in his battle against Hitogami.

Background

In order to reach
Hitogami
, Orsted needs acquire the treasures of the Five Dragon Generals, one of them belongs to
Laplace
 who will be reborn in the future and will start another war on humanity. But Hitogami cannot be defeated if Orsted is depleted his
Mana
 from his battle against Laplace. So Zanoba proposes to recruit companions separate from Orsted to enhance their fighting force and gather allies while moving freely.

Headquarters





(Right)ORSTED Corporation Headquarters when it was a hut



Initially built as a hut located in the suburbs of Sharia, Ranoa Kingdom and where Rudeus built his first Magic Armor for his second battle against Orsted. The hut is renovated into a 1 storey building that has a conference room, sleeping room, research room and an armory containing all of Rudeus' magic tools and armor that he locks with Earth Magic to avoid being stolen.

A basement has also been created made by Rudeus' Earth Magic which has 20 rooms with plans of adding a teleportation magic circle on each of them but currently only 5 of the rooms have a teleportation magic circle in
Asura Kingdom
, Holy Kingdom of Milis, the Great Forest, Kingdom of the Dragon King, and the southern part of the
Demon Continent
.

Members

Orsted

The titular Head of the ORSTED Corporation and referred to as President or Chairman by Rudeus in his narrations. Orsted usually stays in corporation's headquarters when not in a mission and also gives out orders on the operations of the corporation and approval of recruitments.

Rudeus Greyrat

First subordinate of Orsted and Founder of ORSTED Corporation, also known as the Dragon God's right hand who carries out missions on Orsted's behalf and recruiting members.

Ariel Anemoi Asura

Second Subordinate of Orsted, Ariel is one of the main sponsor of the ORSTED Corporation after becoming queen of Asura Kingdom. In addition to being a major shareholder, Ariel also pledges her army in the case of a decisive battle.

Zanoba Shirone

Third Subordinate of Orsted, Zanoba is also in charge of developing Rudeus' Magic Armor especially after
Geese Nukadia
 reveals that he is preparing for war against them.

Miko of Memory

The Miko of
Millishion
 and becomes a member of the corporation after Rudeus gives her a bracelet with the Dragon God's emblem and an owl that she names Nurse that serves as her guardian beast.

Faria Steer

The receptionist of the Corporation. She is part of the long-eared tribe and is called "Little Elf-Chan" by Rudeus.

Kalman III

Initially an enemy, he happily joined the ORSTED Corporation after being defeated by the Dragon God in battle.

Ars Greyrat

Helps Rudeus and travels with Aisha during his tasks.

Godbard

Godbard is the current Ore God of
Talhand
's generation who swore loyal to the Dragon God for a large number of black stone created by Rudeus with Earth Magic that the Magic Armor is made of.

Subsidiary

Rude Mercenary Company

Reference