This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

Information

Chronology

Powers and Abilities

Relationships

Gallery

"I am already preparing and moving while thinking about what will happen in a hundred years time. What has happened and what will happen, everything is strategic preparation. Because of Nanahoshi and you, things have become distorted..."

Orsted to Rudeus Greyrat

Orsted
 (
オルステッド
,

Orusuteddo
)
 is the current
Dragon God
, a title given to the strongest member of the
Dragon Tribe
, and the sworn enemy of
"Human God"
.

Spoilers ahead!

Initially an antagonist, nearly killing
Rudeus
 twice due to his affiliation with Hitogami, he later becomes a major supporting character, after "Human God's" true nature is revealed.

Appearance

Similar to other Dragon Race people such as
Perugius
, Orsted has silver hair and golden
sanpaku
 eyes with an overpowering look.

He carries no visible equipment and wears a white coat adorned with fur.

Personality

Due to having the
curse
 of being hated and feared by all living things that see his face, Orsted has rather poor social skills and carries a somewhat distant attitude. When it comes to his objective, he is absolutely ruthless and would not hesitate from destroying anything on the way, no matter who or what. He would not hesitate to attack any apostles of
Hitogami
, usually without actually even taking the time to listen to them and has almost killed
Rudeus
 twice because of this.

However, he has an unexpectedly soft side to him, being patient and kind towards his comrades. Furthermore he has shown himself to be extremely kind towards children, especially Rudeus' children who are immune to his curse and thus don't fear or hate him. He is also very humble, preferring to refer to his followers as comrades rather than subordinates in spite of the vast power and standing differences. Orsted has an empathetic side as he profoundly apologizes to Rudeus for hiding the fate of the Superd Tribe from him.

He tends to become more emotional on topics that involve the
Dragon Race
 as he was quite angry at Rudeus when he mentioned the Dragon Race and spoke of
Perugius
. However, he does not get along with the other Dragon Race and seems to hate the Dragon Kings.

Background

Laplace: "A name"
First Dragon God: "Name?"
Laplace: "The name of your child?"
First Dragon God: "Orsted. This child's name is Orsted"

Orsted was born roughly
10,000~20,000 years ago
 in the Dragon World from the union between his father, the
First Dragon God
, and his mother
Lunaria
, the daughter of the Human God. However, at the time of his birth, his father had still not decided on a name for him yet despite his wife urgings to give him one.
 The world was split into six in this era, each home to a different race and ruled by a god: the human world, dragon world, demon world, beast world, ocean world, and sky world. However, at some point, Orsted's mother ended up being killed under mysterious circumstances. The
"Human God"
, claimed that the other gods had conspired against the Dragon God, resulting in his wife's death. Enraged, the Dragon God would wage a war of retribution against the other worlds.

The war ended up killing the other gods and destroying their worlds, with only the human world being spared his wrath and prompting survivors to flee there. However, after destroying the demon world, the dragon god's ward,
Laplace
, learned that the Demon God's wife had also been mysteriously murdered. Realizing that the person he thought had been Human God was, in fact, an imposter who had planned all of this, the furious Dragon God intended to go to war with the human world as well. However, at this point, his generals could no longer tolerate their liege's constant warmongering and turned on him, resulting in a battle so great that it left the First Dragon God getting extremely weakened while the dragon world began to collapse as well. Seeing this chance, Hitogami mortally wounds him.






Orsted defeating Gal Farion in the Manga



In the end, the First Dragon God was left mortally wounded whilst the surviving dragons departed for the human world. Though too weakened to kill the false Human God, the Dragon God managed to seal him in the
void between worlds
 before succumbing to his wounds. Before this happened, however, the dragon god used his power to send his son 10000 years into the future with a mission to kill Hitogami. He also ordered Laplace to await his son's arrival and develop techniques that can be used to kill Hitogami when the time comes. Upon sending his son to the future, the First Dragon god also finally decides on a name for him: Orsted.

On his journey in the
Human World
, Orsted battles and soundly defeats
Gal Farion
 who was at the time still a
Sword Saint
. Although Orsted completely defeats Gal, he spares him and let him go without missing a limb.

Achievements

Achieving the title of Dragon God, which is only given to the strongest member of the
Dragon Tribe
.

Ranking #2 among the
Seven Great Powers
.

Effectively being #1 due to the actual #1 being absent throughout the entirety of the Mushoku Tensei.

Mastering virtually every combat technique in the world, be it swordsmanship or magic, at God-Rank making him the strongest character in Mushoku Tensei.

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Quotes

Orsted:
 "You. Are you perhaps familiar with the name
Hitogami
?"

Orsted:
 "When you die, be sure to deliver a message to Hitogami for me. Tell him that the Dragon God Orsted will be the one to kill him."

Orsted:
 "Choose! Rudeus Greyrat! Side with Hitogami, and lose everything to me! Or follow me, and fight Hitogami together! If it's you, since it's you who is immune to my curse, then you should be able to choose with your own will!"

Rudeus:
 "From my view point, you seem to hold a great grudge towards Hitogami, what is the reason?"
Orsted:
 "Is there someone who does not hold a grudge against that piece of trash?"
Rudeus:
 "...That's true."

Orsted:
 "There are many who call themselves Dragon Kings. They live as they please with that tiny pride of theirs and die because of a foolish enemy. But you are different. Therefore, don't call yourself that, Rudeus Greyrat."

Orsted:
 "I, too, want to try fighting believing in my comrades for once."

Orsted:
 "Possessing the Fighting God Armor and the King Dragon Sword. I assume that you'll have no excuses when you lose with both?"

Orsted:
 "Choose. Become my follower or die."

Trivia

Orsted is so skilled and experienced in combat that he could take at least five different courses of actions in one second of prediction, making Rudeus completely unable to counter him even with the
foresight eye
.

The curse of being hated and feared by all living creatures does not apply to members of the ancient Dragon Race,
Nanahoshi
, Rudeus and Rudeus' descendants.

Orsted tends to give an intimidating gaze. When he met Rudeus and Nanahoshi, he also asked why they are not looking away (indicating they are unaffected by the curse, otherwise they would).

Orsted usually deals the killing blow to his enemies by punching a hole through their chest, earning him the nickname "donut maker" among some fans.

Orsted unexpectedly enjoyed the company of Rudeus's child,
Lucy
, giving her a shoulder ride when she was small and even taught her a trick to do magic when she had difficulties.

Even though he is ranked second in Seven Great World Power, Orsted is said to be strongest in the world, surpassing the Technique God.

Orsted often checks on Rudeus's family when Rudeus was out to make sure that they are safe.

He is the 100th generation of the Dragon Gods.

He stopped counting after 100 "returns" (+100 times * 200 years= +20,000 years old), however his actual age is unknown.

At the start of every loop, he spends 10 years training his body.

In one of his loops, he fought Hitogami in the Void World and lost.

Orsted has kept notes about how to replicate the effects of the helmet created by Cliff, so in future loops he can create it himself, however he said that he wouldn't be able to improve on it on his own.

Orsted has notes regarding the changes happening to the world due to Rudeus's influence, in the off chance of a future loop with Rudeus.

If Rudeus exists in future timeloops, Orsted intends to postpone obtaining the treasure of Mad Dragon Chaos, so that, Rudeus, Zanoba and Chaos can work together on the automaton that Rudeus and Zanoba invented.

As Orsted has been reincarnated in a human body like Perugius, he doesn't have wings on his back like the original Dragon race.

Knows of Rudeus's reincarnation as well that he is of the same world as Nanahoshi.

References