This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

Information

Chronology

Powers and Abilities

Relationships

Gallery

Family

First Dragon God

Laplace: "A name"
First Dragon God: "Name?"
Laplace: "The name of your child?"
First Dragon God: "Orsted. This child's name is Orsted"

The First Dragon God is Orsted's father. Although The First Dragon God is normally decisive on making choices, he didn't give Orsted his name near the destruction of the Dragon World then also grants him his power and knowledge to fulfill his wish and the wish of the
Dragon Tribe
 - the defeat of Hitogami.
 Since then, the succeeding generations of the Dragon God including Orsted has been making his preparations for his eventual battle with Hitogami and ensures that the original timeline that he refers to be ordained by
Fate
 to be followed.

Lunaria

"Fufufu. Husband, please give the child a name."

-Lunaria

Lunaria is Orsted's mother. Lunaria protected Orsted in his infancy with her body when an unknown assailant attacks and her body is seen in a fetal position clutching Orsted.

Laplace

"The Demon Dragon General Laplace is the only one left of the first generation
Five Dragon Generals
. Laplace escaped the collapsing
Dragon World
 and drifted to this
world
, to carry out a certain mission, He became the second generation Dragon God."

-Orsted to Rudeus

The First Dragon God planned to raise Laplace as a son, a mix race of the Dragon Tribe and
Demons
 with the intent of eliminating the hatred towards hybrids which in turn prepare for Orsted's birth who is also a mix race of the Dragon Tribe and
Human
.
 Although it is implied that Orsted is aware of this and what has become Demon God Laplace, he is preparing for Laplace's reincarnation, the war against him in order to retrieve the relic in Laplace's posession that he needs to open the way to the
Void World
 and battle Hitogami.

Friends

Nanahoshi Shizuka





Orsted and Nanahoshi in the Manga



Orsted is the first person Nanahoshi encounters after being transported to the
Human World
 and assists her and adjusting to her new life. He recognizes Nanahoshi as "useful" and was very interested in her otherworld knowledge that he trusted her enough allow her to travel the world together and later introduces her to
Perugius Dola
 to begin her research on Summoning Magic.
 They later parted as Nanahoshi enters
Ranoa Magic Academy
 to continue his research but Orsted gave her a magic tool in form of a ring that allows her to summon him.

Subordinates

Rudeus Greyrat

Rudeus is Orsted's first 'subordinate' (Orsted considered him a comrade but Rudeus insisted upon being called a subordinate).

During the first time that they met, Orsted realizes Rudeus is unaffected by his
curse
 and is also bewildered that Rudeus is
Paul Greyrat
's son which to his knowledge Paul only has
two

daughters
. When Orsted heard the name of Hitogami from Rudeus, he thought that Rudeus was an apostle. As such, Orsted '
fought
' (a one-sided beatdown, really) against
Dead End
, which ended with Orsted having an overwhelming victory, where Rudeus is on the brink of death. However, as per the suggestion of Nanahoshi, he spared his life and heals his chest wound. After some years, Orsted
battles
 Rudeus and defeated him again, making him his subordinate after battling his Magic Armor. In the beginning, Orsted didn't really trust him, but as time passed, Rudeus becomes one of the few people that he can call a friend and in turn Orsted watches over his family.

Ariel Anemoi Asura

Orsted initially plans to make Ariel to be the Queen of
Asura Kingdom
 as he remembers in true timeline ordained by
Fate
, that if she becomes the Queen, it'll lead to the existence of a powerful person pivotal in the fight against Laplace

So he gives Rudeus his first mission, which is to assist Ariel on becoming queen.
 On their journey to Asura Kingdom, Ariel realizes Rudeus' intentions and asks him to meet with Orsted. Although Ariel is initially afraid of Orsted, Ariel willingly becomes his subordinate after hearing his plans and the future of Asura Kingdom.
 When Ariel becomes queen, she continues serving Orsted by sending him information about the Kingdom's activites such as the marriage of
Isolte Cruel
 and
Doga
.

Zanoba Shirone

"In that case, I would have you work under Rudeus and take orders from him. If you propose we make more allies, then that is what we shall do."

Orsted to Zanoba

After the death of his brother
Pax Shirone
, Orsted concludes that the current time loop is a failure but Zanoba who wants to avenge his brother interjects and suggests that they gather allies in preparation for war against
Laplace
 which eventually lead to the establishment of the
ORSTED Corporation
 and Zanoba also becoming Orsted's subordinate who is also the co-developer of the
Magic Armor
 .

Kalman III





Orsted defeating Kalman III in the Light Novel



Aleksandar"Orsted-sama... But I'm still not yet qualified as a North God..."
Orsted:"That's exactly why you should train him. If you watch him and raise him all by yourself, you just might discover what it is about the North God Style you are lacking."

Aleksander becomes Orsted's subordinate after the Decisive Battle, wanting to learn about the truth behind a hero. After becoming Orsted's subordinate, he usually stays at the Orsted Corporation Headquarters, and has become quite doctile.

At Orsted's suggestion, Aleksander trains
Sieghart Saladin Greyrat
 in the
North God Style
 with the intent that he might become the North God in the original timeline who lost to
Sword God

Jino Britts
 and fell into despair but after training a child, he became the strongest North God in history. By being with one of Rudeus' children, Orsted considers the possibility for Aleksander to realize what makes Rudeus strong and perhaps become a more noble and stronger North God than in the one in the original history.

Greyrat Family

Rudeus' family with the exception of his children are still affected by Orsted's curse but agrees that Rudeus becomes his subordinate despite their mistrust towards him. Rudeus eventually asks Cliff to create a
Curse Supressing Helmet
.

Lucy Greyrat

Orsted has a soft demeanor towards Lucy.

When Lucy was young and met Orsted for the first time, she mistook him for her father, due to Orsted's white hair, which is similar to Sylphie's.

Lara Greyrat

As I thought, Roxy's child is special.

-Orsted after Rudeus' report of summoning
Leo
 to protect Lara

As part of the agreement for Rudeus to become his subordinate, Orsted gives him a scroll containing a magic circle to summon a protector for his family.
 Like most of Rudeus' children, Lara frequently visits the
ORSTED Corporation
 Headquarters and is also unaffected by Orsted's curse. For the case of Lara, Orsted feels unease towards Lara especially when he is target of her pranks which he doesn't mind. Out of all the people Orsted knows, Lara is the only person he has no idea how she'll grow up and also believes that this is the reason why Hitogami is afraid of her and even did much effort try to kill her before she is born.

Others

Hitogami

Before you die, give Hitogami a message:"Dragon God Orsted is going to kill you."

-Orsted to Rudeus

Ever since the death of the
First Dragon God
, Orsted's father due to Hitogami's machinations, the next 99 generation of Dragon Gods has lived their life to defeating Hitogami and is the sworn enemy of Orsted and the entire dragon race. Orsted hates him so much that he would fly into murderous rage upon hearing Hitogami's name.
 This hatred towards Hitogami also extends towards anything concerning Hitogami that he would repeatedly tell Rudeus to not to believe anything he says. Even Hitogami's apostles are also that target of his hatred that he would kill them on sight but Rudeus is able to convince Orsted to spare some of his disciples like
Luke Notos Greyrat
 since it might affect other people that are important in Orsted's plan like Ariel who is close to Luke after surviving together on their journey to Sharia after their exile. During his countless loops, Orsted continuously prepares to kill Hitogami by writing all the changes in history he was and was not involved with and memorizes all their outcomes to eventually prepare for his battle against him and would repeat the course of actions that benefits him.

Perugius Dola

"In this
world
 there are three people you should never fight:
Technique God
,
Fighting God
, and Dragon God. Among those three, Dragon God Orsted is the strongest and the most ruthless."

Perugius to Rudeus

Perugius and Orsted are both from the
Dragon Tribe
. Despite this, Perugius tends to not get involve with Orsted's motives as he prioritizes his upcoming battle against Laplace and also refuses to aid Rudeus against his
second battle
 against him but Perugius allows Orsted entry of
Chaos Breaker
 and usage of his Teleportation Circles.

References