Information

Summary

Chapter 1: Paul Notos Greyrat.

In the year K388 eldest son of Notos family, Paul Notos Greyrat was born, he was loved by his mother Valentine. Five years later, the butler is searching for Paul asking the maid if she knows his localization, but she dont know. After he leaves, the maid says to Paul that he can already leave his hiding place under the skirt, after they talk a bit, Paul leaves the house.

Chapter 2: Blood Is Not an Issue.

The father of Paul, Amarant summon his son Paul, asking to his son to act more as a noble of the Notos family, and he need to stop of touching the maids, Paul says that is not fun and says that he started to do that because Amarant do the same to them, Amarant excuse himself and partially allow his action because he know that he have the Notos Blood, before they conversation end, he ask again to his son to act more as a noble because his birthday party is going to be soon.

Chapter 3: A place to relax.

The butler is searching again for Paul, he wanted to hide again below a skirt, when he was searching, find his mother, he tried to hide below his mother skirt, but she didn't allow it, she says that he needs to be respectful with the girls. For her, even if Paul doesn't act as a noble, she loves his son and his cheerful disposition, after the end of the conversation they hug. Even if Paul like the sensation below the skirt, he love more to hug his mother.

Chapter 4: Paul 5-year-old party.

The Notos household is now celebrating the fifth birthday party of Paul and he is receiving the aristocrats for his party, after that he goes with some noble girls older than him to see the garden of his house. In the garden and being surrounded by cute girls, he thinks that being in the Notos family is not that bad, he also saves one of those girls to don't fall in the dirt of the garden.

In the night, his father find that is good that he start to act as a aristocrat and find that is time to go to the school where he can learn history, etiquette, swordsmanship and magic, Paul doubt for a moment but his father says that he may find cute noble girls. Some weeks later, Paul is now studying at a school in the Milbots region, for him the school is not fun.

Chapter 5: The Epitome of Aristocratic Society.

In the school, Paul finds an aristocrat using his position as a noble against another aristocrat of less rank. He doesn't like that, so he walks away. Paul almost always skips the class, but because he was alone, he decides to make a friend, when he is returning he meets the harassed lower rank noble named Seaton, when Paul tries to make him his friend with a casual conversation, the other noble appears to harass him again, but Paul intervenes.

After a discussion, Paul say his full name (Paul Notos Greyrat), after that high rank noble decides to extent his hand but Paul declines his bow, after feeling offended, he left, when Paul tries to continue his conversation with Seaton, he immediately apologizes for being rude with a noble of higher rank and left.

Paul dont understand that treatment because of his lineage when he only wanted a friend and feels that the school still is boring, so he still continues to skip almost every class excluding swordsmanship.

Chapter 6: The Interest of the Sword.

Paul is attending the class of the Water God style, which is taught by a female instructor and is the only class that never misses. The instructor asks him to attend the other class but he  replies that he dont have interest in the aristocrats class and doesn't have talent in magic, and having a discussion, Paul sees how weak is his will and starts to cry. The instructor ask him if she can do something and he ask supplementary lessons and she accept. Paul tries to start being a little more serious about the school. Some days later, Paul temporarily returned to his house because of the school vacations.

Chapter 7: A Rebuke from My Father.

After Paul returned to his house, his father was angry because he knows how Paul is in the school, and how he doesn't act as an aristocrat, because of that, he hired some tutors to study in the home. Paul sees that for the first time his father Amarant wasn't talking as a father, but as an aristocrat, after that he ran to his mother's room and hugged his mother, and for a moment, he was able to forget everything.

Chapter 8: Rustling Feelings.

Almost two years passed since Paul entered the school, he still skipped supplementary classes excluding swordsmanship. In one of his school break, His mother tells him that she is pregnant, Paul feels sad because the kind hand of his mother that was always for him is now directed to her belly. Paul left the room because was going to start his swordsmanship instruction with a oppression in his chest.

Chapter 9: The Talent of Swordsmanship.

In his house, Paul is now training in the Sword God Style with another female instructor, even though it is hard to learn two different styles, it is more fun for him.

After the training, Paul asks her how he was. She feels that he has talent, but she doesn't want to praise him much because some people grow confident and may stop his training. After Paul faints for the training, he is carried by her to the mansion.

Chapter 10: Pilemon.

A few months later, the second son of the Notos family, Pilemon Notos Greyrat, was born. On one of the few school holidays, Paul wanted to see the garden with his mother, but she cannot because she is taking care of the baby, instead, she wants to have tea with him in her room. Paul feels sad because now he barely sees and spends time with his mother and begins to feel that his own existence is disappearing in the house.

Chapter 11: Paul 10 years old.

Paul is now 10 years old, and he continue the training with the sword in school, the water god style instructor see that he can use water god and sword god style really well but finds that if the noble guys learn mostly the water god style, he learning sword god style fits him better. Suddenly the teacher says that she is going to leave soon because is going to have a child, surprised Paul asked if she was married, but she says that is from a relation with the principal of the school. She was worried about Paul and what is going to do in the future, but because he doesn't want to worry her, he says that he is going to be ok. Some days later, the teacher retires and Paul never meets her again.

Chapter 12: The World of Adults.

The Notos household is now celebrating the tenth birthday party of Paul. Paul was sad because his mother couldn't accompany him because Pilemon is sick and angry with his father because is more focused talking with other aristocrats even though it is his birthday party.

Philip arrive and start to talking with Paul and start to talk some miscellaneous stuff, The brother of Philip, James arrives and ask to Philip to choose better his elections of friends. Thinking that he didn't know him, he confronted James, but he did know him as the problematic child of the Notos family that only knows how to use a sword and doesn't know how to be noble. Philip indirectly stop discussion them saying that is time to dance and James left.

Paul dislike how is James, Philip says that he dont need to worry and is better to dance with some girls that are looking him. He took one of the girls and started to dance. Even though he has problems, the girl helps him. After the dance she says that finally payed the favor for saving her to dirt her dress in the garden in the party of 5 years ago because a noble cant dirt the dress. Paul start feeling something in his chest, the girl invite him to leave for a moment and rest. They arrive to a empty room and the girl hug him, they talk a bit and Paul kiss her, after that Paul follow the flow of the moment and they have sex.

After the end of the party, Paul is dismissing the guests, Philip sees him differently and asks what happened, Paul says that he stepped in an amazing world, and feels that he can't escape from it.

Chapter 13: Womanizing.

Paul starts to play with the aristocratic girls, and the girls accept mostly because they want to have a connection with the Notos Family, one of the many girls warns him that he is playing with fire.

One day when Paul was training with Philip, A noble guy appeared and challenged Paul to a duel because he slept with his fiance. Paul didn't want to apologize because it was consensual, and he wanted a formal duel so there isn't a problem if someone is killed, the noble in the end retreat. A week later, Paul received a letter from his father to return to the house.

Chapter 14: The Bad Boy of the Notos Family.

After he returns to the house, his father Amarant asks Paul why he was asked to return to the house, Paul tries to excuse himself but his father hits him. He doesn't mind if he plays with girls, but complains that his son doesn't see the balance of power with the other aristocrats family's, because he receives a letter from a noble family about the last fight in the school. Amarant feels pitiful that Pilemon has a brother like Paul, after the conversation, he orders his servant that he can't leave his room.

Chapter 15: The Start of House Arrest.

Paul arrives at his room and sees that his father has already prepared the room for the house arrest. The butler leaves and locks the room. For a free being like him, Paul finds that is boring that calculative life of an aristocrat. Several days passed since Paul was locked in his room. Behind the door, Paul heard how everybody praised Pilemon, comparing him to Paul's past attitude.

Paul briefly remembered how Pilemon visited him in one of those days. After the butler left him alone, Pilemon thanks him because everybody is praising him because of Paul's behavior. Paul doesn't mind it, but thinks about how Pilemon changed in the years that he wasn't able to see him. After they talk, Pilemon left and Paul see how he had the face of those aristocrat that looks down the other people. Even though he already knows that he is not loved by his father, he knows that it is not the case for his mother.

Chapter 16: A Small Sense of Harmony.

Her mother, Valentine, visits him in secret every night. She tries to ask her husband to forgive his son but so far, she wasn't able to convince him. Paul wasn't visited by his father since his house arrest, but his mother says that he love him and he still expect him to become the head of Notos Family, Paul want to hear that from his father and still want to tries to fit in the aristocrat world. After they finish the conversation, Paul hugs his mother but feels something wrong. After that night his mother stopped to visit him.

Chapter 17: Operation Escape from House Arrest.

For a long time, Valentine doesn't visit Paul and thinks that his father discovered their secret reunions. The maid that was with Paul since he was a child and now is the chief maid, appears and brings him food. Paul asked her if something happened to his mother, but she was ordered to don't give any information. Paul tells her how she was the only of the few people kind to him, after a short conversation, the maid accepts to tell him.

His mother was sick and unable to move in her bed and his father was calling doctors and surgeons inside and outside of the territory, but without good results. Paul was angry with himself and wanted to see his mother. He made a plan to escape for a long time and needs the help of the maid, so she decides to help him.

Chapter 18: Conditions for Lifting House Arrest.

Paul was able to escape from his room using the maid skirt like he was a child years ago, after that he goes alone to the room of his mother. When he entered, he found that the room was filled with the odor of medicine, with the curtain closed and his mother sleeping. When he approached and touched her, see how she lost weight and remembered that feeling of her last visit. Paul hates himself for not realizing before , and uses a basic healing spell, but it does not work. He kissed his mother and left the room and went to the office of his father.

He apologize to ashamed the Notos name and his father easily accept and lift his house arrest, but prohibited him to visit his mother, telling him that she was too sweet to him, and may be the cause of his carefree attitude, after that he is ordered to leave the office without telling him that Valentine was sick. He Is surprised to see how easy he lifted the house arrest but sees how his father is not interested in him.

Chapter 19:  Determination to Save My Mother.

After Paul leaves the office, he hears a conversation between Amarant and his subordinate that there is a rumor that in the slums there exists a good doctor, after hearing that, he decides to go to the slums.

Chapter 20: Finding a Doctor in the Slums.

Paul for many days went to the slums searching for that doctor without good results. One day he was contacted by a prostitute with information, but it wasn't good news. After she sees his low spirits, the prostitute offers himself to Paul and he accepts.

Now at night,  on the road to his house, he has the feeling that he heard the voice of his mother and starts to run to his house.

Chapter 21: A Disgusting World.

Paul arrives at the mansion and runs to his mother's bedroom, and finds that his father and brother are crying beside her bed and his mother is now dead. When Paul tries to approach her, his brother stops him and says that was his fault, when they were starting a discussion, Amarant shuts them up, and picks Philemon meanwhile he pierce Paul with his gaze. Amarant also blames Paul that he killed her, because her body has always been weak, but she put so much effort for Paul and he forbade him to visit his mother's body until his funeral. After that Paul continued to go school until his graduation.

Some years later, the Notos family is now celebrating Pilemon's 5 years old Birthday party, and by obligation, Paul participates, now even the girl that he lost his virginity runs away, because they now are being evaluated. When he started to talk with Pilemon indirectly asked him to leave his birthday party and he complied. After seeing how restrictive the Aristocratic world is, Paul's patience reaches his limit and decides to go to the slums and liberate his frustration with a fight.

Chapter 22: An Eccentric Bonbon.

Paul arrives at the Mansion at midnight and the chief maid finds him that he is injured, Paul says that he is fine, even if he lost the fight and his money, he wants to have a rematch with them. The next day, now with a training sword, he goes back to the slums and starts a fight against them to recover his lost money. After some time, the name of Paul was known in the slums as a weird kid that always lost and recovered his money.

Chapter 23: A Test of Skills in the Slums.

Paul was spending his time with the prostitute that meet some time ago. She asked him if he is really a noble, because he doesn't act as one. Paul confirm that saying he no like their attitude, meanwhile he think how different are the adult woman compared to the aristocrats girls.

After leaving the prostitutes, some boys of his age stop him, saying that he still dont meet his boss Rudd, Paul says that he is not interested in boys and after Paul insults their boss they start to fight,thinking that is a good way to train his sword.

Chapter 24: A Posse of Bad Boys.

Paul was able to win the fight, but the boss of the boys, Rudd appeared, he talked to Paul, but he wasn't listening, instead he was seeing the girl behind Rudd named Mary Anne, because she was cute. Radd wanted Paul as a subordinate, but he declined and they started to fight. Radd swordstyle was like the north god style, so  Paul wasn't able to win and the fight ended with a draw.

After that, Paul daily went to the slums to fight Radd as a excuse to see his sister Mary Anne, one day, Radd offers him the title of boss if he can win against him, Paul thinks to decline his offer, but after seeing that he may be near Mary Anne, he fight and was able to become the new boss of the boys of the slum.

Chapter 25: Someone Who Cares.

The chief maid asked him what he was doing every day, Paul answered that it was training. The maid says that his father is going to leave and inspect the territory and is a chance to speak with him. He doesn't like the idea, but he wants to follow the advice of the maid that always helped him.

Paul decides to wait for him near the carriage and when he arrive a tries talks to him, he only ignored him, and after a briefly talk with his butler he decides to go up to the carriage first. The chief maid, angry, decides to confront Amarant but Paul stops her, after that he asks her to don't protect him more to save her job, she says that she doesn't mind it.

Chapter 26: The Troubled Fullness of Life.

Paul was now talking with Mary Anne inside the hideout in the slums about the situation of his family and she comforted Paul. When Paul tries to seduce her, Radd arrives and says that is a good opportunity to show the power of the new boss to the other groups, because it looks like that is going to be a long fight, he decides to spend more time in the slums.

Chapter 27: The Shame of the Notos Family.

When Paul was in the slums, he felt lighter and more free than in the mansion. After he return to the mansion his father call him, when he arrive to his office he finds his father and his brother Pilemon, without saying anything, Amarant wanted to hit Paul but he was able to evade it, saying that after he rob the Sun (Valentine) to the house, he is dirtying the Notos family name. Paul complains how now he wanted to talk and the three start a discussion, in the middle of this, Amarant launches another punch that hits Paul. Pilemon reveals that they know that he goes and plays in the slums. Amarant, angry, says that his actions will tarnish the Notos family name that was built after many generations.

Chapter 28: In Search of Freedom.

The discussion between the family members continues, Amarant forbids Paul to leave his room again and Pilemon complain that he killed his mother, this angries Paul and jump over his brother and start to punch his face, Amarant separate them and angry, decides to disinherit Paul and order him to leave the house, Paul gladly accept. The butler wants to stop their sudden decision and tries to stop Paul that was already leaving, but he was able to run away.

Now in an unnamed  road, Paul thinks what his mother may think if she sees him that he dropped his Notos name, but believes that she may be happy because she loved his carefree life. Paul abandoned the house where he was raised at 12 year old.