Information

Chronology

Gallery

When Paul's son,
Rudeus
, was about 3, Paul began teaching swordsmanship to him while
Roxy
 taught him magic. A few years later, some time after Zenith revealed that she was pregnant, their maid
Lilia
 also revealed she was pregnant with his child which caused some discord within the family. Rudeus' quick thinking prevented the family from falling apart and he ended up marrying Lilia as the second wife. After his daughters were born Paul saw just how dependent
Sylphy
 was towards Rudeus and felt that it wasn't good for both kids' futures. So after talking to her father he knocked Rudeus out during a sparring match, almost losing in the process, and sent him over to his
relatives
 to get a job as a tutor.

3 years after that he was caught up in the mana calamity and was transported with his daughter
Norn
. He spent his time in
Millis
 country helping out other refugees affected by the disaster and searching for his family. Eventually he and Rudeus reunited and he was initially happy to see him, but ended up becoming angry with his son while he was recounting what happened to him for his happy-go-lucky attitude as he though Rudeus was having nothing but fun while Paul himself was struggling as hard as he could to reconnect with his family, with absolutely no leads on finding Rudeus,
Zenith
,
Aisha
, or Lilia. He also thought that Rudeus wasn't trying hard enough to look for his missing mother. This angered Rudeus who threw out that he was fooling around with the women in his group. The two ended up getting into a serious fight which ended with Rudeus mounting his father and continuously punching him in the face. The fight was stopped by the arrival of Norn who demanded he stop bullying her father. After Rudeus left Paul went to go sulk in a bar where he met his friend
Geese
. After listening to Geese, Paul was able to make amends with his son and the two departed on good terms with each other.

Quite some time after Rudeus sent Lilia and Aisha to him, he is informed of Zenith's location by
Talhand
. He then made the decision to send his daughters to live with their brother so he could go save her and keep them out of danger, something Norn was against. After Paul and his group were having trouble rescuing Zenith, Geese sent Rudeus a letter asking for help. When Rudeus and
Elinalise
 showed up, Paul was in a pathetic shape apparently distraught over what he did when he was under the influence of a succubus. He believed Rudeus was a dream at first but he snapped back to reality when Rudeus said he had a child on the way. He was surprised to hear that he married Sylphy and at how quickly the two arrived to them. After informing the two that Zenith was trapped in a labyrinth, they went down and were able to rescue Roxy who got caught in a teleportation trap sometime before Rudeus and Elinalise arrived. Eventually they discovered the room that Zenith was in. She was trapped inside a giant mana crystal being guarded by a hydra. After a lengthy fight they were able to kill the hydra, but Rudeus had lost his left hand and Paul was snapped in half as he tried to save his son from the hydra's final attack. Paul looked up at Rudeus with a relieved look on his face before he died. Rudeus took some of his belongings before he reluctantly burned his corpse. He took a piece of his bone and placed inside a burial urn he created.

After returning home, Rudeus gave one of each of his things to his sisters and was intending to keep his armor for himself, but his amnesiac mute mother claimed it herself. Afterwords, he buried the urn in a cemetery which he goes to visit whenever he has some free time to talk about the things that's been happening around him and his family.