This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

Information

Chronology

Powers and Abilities

Relationships

Gallery

Family

Zenith Greyrat

Paul and Zenith in Buena Village
Paul and Zenith coming to a compromise
1/2

Paul first meets Zenith and forces her to join his party after seeing she was being exploited by her previous party mates by forcing her to be in the front lines. Zenith eventually falls in love with Paul despite being a womanizer and when Zenith becomes pregnant with Rudeus, Paul marries Zenith that the latter did not expect and they both retire from adventuring and settles in Buena Village.

Philip Boreas Greyrat

Philip is Paul's cousin and are in good terms that after Paul retires from being an
Adventurer
, Philip makes arrangement that Paul become a lower class
Knight
 to be stationed at
Buena Village
,
Fittoa Region
 where Paul settles down with Zenith.

Rudeus Greyrat

Rudeus and Paul at the Season 2 Part 2 ending
Paul together with Rudeus in the Anime
Paul upset with Rudeus in the Anime
Paul battling Rudeus before they separate
Paul battling Rudeus in Millishion
Rudeus reuniting with Rudeus in Millishion
Rudeus and Paul reconciling in the Anime
Rudeus reuniting with Paul in the Begaritt Continent
Paul upset with Rudeus after seeing Zenith in the Anime
1/9

Rudeus is Paul's oldest son that he calls "Rudy" where he had an agreement with Zenith that if its a boy, Rudeus will be a
Swordsman
 but eventually comes to a compromise when Rudeus is talented in
Magic
 to be trained in the Sword in the morning and in Magic in the afternoon.
 Since then, Paul considers Rudeus to be a genius who is able to do anything very well but also causes Paul to put too much expectations on Rudeus.

When Rudeus asks Paul to find him a job so he can start earning to study at
Ranoa Magic Academy
, Paul is surprised by this as this is not something that someone of Rudeus' age would say but also notices that
Sylphiette
 is becoming too dependent of him so he decides to separate them.
 But he is also aware that he cannot win against Rudeus in an argument so he decides to fight him and knock him out but is also surprised on how he utilizes multiple
Magic
 against him and decides to start training again.

Lilia Greyrat

Paul first meets Lilia when they were young. Paul stayed at a
Water God Style
 Dojo owned by Lilia's father
Augusta
 but Paul runs away after raping Lilia. Paul would later hire Lilia to be her maid before Rudeus is born and she begins to stay with them at
Buena Village
.

Fangs of the Black Wolf

Ghislaine Dedoldia

Ghislaine is Paul's former party mate in
Fangs of the Black Wolf
 who Ghislaine describes as a frivolous man who is full of bad and useless ideas thus resulting to the bad reputation of their party. Although Paul mentioned that he took advantage during Ghislaine's mating season, Ghislaine has no feelings for Paul but she still upholds his duty to Paul of taking care of Rudeus when he begins working as Eris' teacher.

Elinalise Dragonroad

Former friend. While Elinalise does care about Paul's wellbeing enough to help him rescue Zenith, the two apparently had a falling out so bad that Elinalise did not attempt to seduce Rudeus as to avoid being permanently affiliated with Paul.

--To be added

Talhand

Geese Nukadia

Friends

Roxy Migurdia

Roxy is the tutor Paul hire to Rudeus about
Magic
 where she stayed with them for 2 years and Paul considers her a part of his family.
 When Roxy is about to leave after completing Rudeus' training, Paul tries to convince her to stay but she declines
. In the aftermath of the Teleport Incident, Roxy is among those who helped in searching for Paul's family and searches at the
Demon Continent
, the place she is from and is very familiar with.

References