Information

Summary

Chapter 1: A New Life

After Paul leaves his house and status as a noble, he arrives at Ludd and Marrine's hideout and after telling them that he escaped from his house, he asks if he can stay for a while with them and they accept, after that he ask to Rudd to call the boys and he takes a blanket to sleep in another room. Mary Anne awakens Paul, after talking for a bit, Paul reveals to Mary Anne that he plans to leave the territory because is the lord's son and become an adventurer, Mary Anne hug him and they sleep together.

Chapter 2: Departure

The next day, Rudd gather the boys and Paul tell them that he is going to leave the territory and that Rudd is the boss again, Rudd decides to follow Paul, but he ask him who is going to protect Mary Anne, when they almost start to fight, Mary Anne appears and tell to Paul that she also is going with him, in the end Rudd with his sister and a small group of boys is going to follow Paul and decides to departure the next morning.

In the next Morning a group of knights arrive at the slums searching for an aristocratic noble kid, so the group leave the town aiming to the south of the kingdom of Asura.

Chapter 3: Growth

Paul Group arrives at a town, but Rudd doesn't want to enter because he had a fight with the boss of that town and he with a partner where injured for some weeks and he doesn't want that for Paul, Paul says that is not a problem and they can rest in the town.

The group arrives in the back alleys of the town and tries to negotiate with the boss of the city but fails, Paul decides to take the boss that was more strong to Rudd. The boss is easily defeated and his group falls apart. Paul feels that he is stronger than before. They decide to call Mary Anne and the others to loot their resources and rest in their hideout.

Chapter 4: Their own way

The group is still traveling and obtaining resources. A month has passed since their departure and Paul, Rudd and Mary  Anne are eating in a restaurant. Even though they already left the Millbots region, the Notos family still are searching for Paul. Mary Anne and Rudd asked if he was really kicked from his house, but Paul nodded. After thinking about his actual situation, someone entered the restaurant.

Chapter 5: Brawl

A thug with his men entered the restaurant and complained how that place became a kids hangout and started a fight with Paul and his group. Paul told Mary Anne to hide with the Landlady and say that those guys are small fry. Paul feel that those guys were weak, but excluding Rudd, the other boys are not strong enough to fight, Paul easily defeated one of them and decides to help his allies.

Chapter 6: Differences in Upbringing

After the fight, the Landlady angry, wanted to force to Paul and his group to leave the place for the damages in the store for the fight, even thought was raining that day, one of the boy almost hit the landlady but Paul stops him and tries to negotiate and obtain a single night before they need to leave. Some boys were uncomfortable with Paul's action, questioning him that if he plans to return to being a noble, but Paul angrily refutes that, Mary Anne arrives telling to is better to rest.

Chapter 7: Splitting up and taking another step

The Next day still is raining and Radd tell him that about half of the group disappeared, the reason is that they expected that Paul returned to his home and with that obtain a benefice, Paul asked to himself if every person are like that, Mary annae comfort Paul saying that they always are going to be together, after that they leave the inn. Mary Anne and Radd ask to Paul what they going to do, Paul proposes to do a Dojo breaking and obtain a roof, and decides to go to the village  Water God style Dojo.

Chapter 8: Dojo-busting

Paul and his group decides to search the strongest water god user, so they divided, Paul and Mary anne arrive to a Dojo and Paul defeat everyone without problem, Mary Anne is impressed by Paul skill, but he say that is normal, suddenly one of the boys arrive and say that Rudd was in problem, so they depart to help him.

Chapter 9: Dojo-busting 2

Paul and Mary Anne arrive to another dojo and see that Rudd was in problem against a water god user, and the other boys were already defeated, Paul was a little angry how he wasn't able to use better the terrain, and asked to one of the boys to return to the previous Dojo with Mary Anne and Paul decides to jump in the battle

Chapter 10: Holding back

Paul, Rudd and the other boys returned to the previous dojo and Mary Anne started to treat the injuries, Paul showed his disgust to the boys how they were weak and mood in the dojo becomes heavier, suddenly Mary Anne fall and Paul with Rudd rush to their side, Rudd say that she have a weak constitution and now she had fever. Rudd pick her and rushed with the other boys to a hospital meanwhile Paul was left shocked alone.

Chapter 11: Defeat

Paul was shocked because he was remembering how his mother also had a weak constitution, when he tries to leave the Dojo and follow the other boys, but suddenly a mysterious swordsman appear, he heard a rumor of how a strong boy was doing Dojo busting, and he wanted to meet him, after a brief discussion they start to fight, Paul attack but that mysterious guy was able to evade and counter him but Paul was able to evade, impressed the other guy was able to deal a decisive attack against Paul and he slowly started to lost his conscious.

Chapter 12: Instructor Augusta

Paul awakes and find a mysterious girl and decides to restrain her, asking where is he, the mysterious guy who defeats him appear and present him as Augusta and his daughter Lilia and he ask his, name, Paul present himself

Auguste ask him to release his daughter, because he don't have weapon or any other option he accept, Augusta say that they are in his house Dojo and want to Paul to be his disciple, Paul surprised, say that he can't because he is traveling right now and that he is suited more for the Sword God Style that the Water God Style, Augusta offers him to train him and he can stay lodging for free, Paul declines again and say that he need to go to the hospital to see a friend. Augusta decides to accompany him to the hospital, where Paul finds a Pale Rudd.

Chapter 13: Farewell

Paul asked Rudd what happened to Mary Anne, he answered that she is no longer in danger but her body was weak since her infancy, and even though she gained a little of strength with the years, the events of the previous days and the rain affected her. Paul feels responsible to do something similar again like his mother, Rudd tell him that was his fault to prioritize his own desires over health of his sister, he was always a strong man with many responsibilities with the sister and the slums boys until Paul defeat him and he was able to relax a little, Paul say that Rudd was stronger that him because he don't discarded everything unlike him. Paul makes a hard decision and decides that this is the end of the trip and he needs to take Mary Anne to their home. Rudd asked if he would say goodbye to Mary Anne, Paul said no because it is better that they forget about him. After leaving the hospital, Paul meets Augusta and after talking a bit Paul is dragged to the Dojo where Augusta is the instructor, when they arrive he presents Paul to the other students as a new practitioner, Paul decides that is a good idea to stay for now and pray for the happiness of Mary Anne.

Meanwhile Mary Anne and Rudd talk about how Paul decides to take the decision to separate the group and not force that to Rudd, Mary Anne asks herself if she was able to support him, but Rudd says that was guaranteed meanwhile both cries. A short epilogue for them say that after they returned to the slums in the Millbots region, they both move to a small village some years latter and Rudd married the daughter of the mayor, meanwhile Mary Anne decides to stay single

Chapter 14: Delinquent student.

Paul was now living in the house of Augusta, but sometimes he ran away to sleep with a random woman, when Paul was awakening, Augusta burst into the room to bring him to the dojo, Paul still doesn't recognize Augusta as his master, but Augusta's threat to knock him and bring him to the Dojo naked, without other choices, he accepts.

After they finish the training, they come back to the house of Augusta, Flute received Lilia and Augusta, but show a disgusted face with Paul and force Paul to change his clothes, when he leave Flute complain to Augusta why he picked that boy, Augusta say that he was a rough stone that can be polished, Flute disliked her personality and behavior and doubt that he can change.

Chapter 15: Swordsmanship of the Water God School.

Paul was exploring the market searching for girls to spend the night, when he tries to approach to a girl, some students of the dojo stops him and bring him to train, and they were angry with Paul because he was so impolite with his senpais, Paul see that the girl was observing the situation and decides to provoke them to fight, Paul easily defeat them meanwhile show his skill to the crowds and worked to get the girl's attention, he approached, seduced and bring her to the bed. When he awoke, Augusta forced him to go to the dojo again.

When he arrive, Paul see Lilia training and her foot movements and decide to greet her, Lilia tell him to do not disturb the person that are training, Paul tries to invite him to a date, but she refute his attempts because she know what he is doing with the girls, Paul teased her what did she meant with that and Lilia tries to hit him, but  Augusta stop them, after discussing Lilia leave, meanwhile Paul continue with his training.

Chapter 16: Conviction and Victory.

In the house of Augusta, Flute was discussing with Paul how he doesn't help in the house but Paul refuted her saying that was not in his deal in Augusta, Flute Angry , reduce his amount of meal until he starts to help.

In the dojo, Augusta was training Paul, giving him tips to improve. Paul wanted a rematch battle and Augusta accepted, because the training and using as reference Lilia  foot movements, Paul was able to land a hit to Augusta. Augusta was surprised because how he discover the trick of the movement that was still in development and accept that he lost, Paul was expecting more of him, and decides that is time to go away, but Augusta tell him that still have the problem of money and they still are in a draw (including their first meeting was 1 win-1 lose for both), Also tells him again how see his talent with the water god style, Paul change the theme and tell that Flutte reduced his meal and Augusta sa that he is going to fix that

When they return to the House, Augusta talks to Flute about the meal problem, Flute angrily asks why Paul is so special compared with the other students, and Augusta reveals that today he lost against Paul. Flute and Lilia are surprised by the news. After that Lilia decides to leave and Flute follows Augusta's order.

Chapter 17: The Final Battle.

With a new day, Paul wanted to settle his battle score with Augusta and find a way to fix his money problem to leave the city. When Paul was exploring the city, searching again for another woman, she found a girl leaving a weapon shop and asked her if she was a traveler, but  her answer was that she was an adventurer. They talked and in the end, they slept together.

In the next day, Paul decides that he is going to be an adventurer to gain money but before that, he want to defeat Augusta and decides to go to the dojo and challenge him, he gladly accept and start another fight in the dojo, Paul planned to use his previous strategy to win, but Augusta don't move his foot, leaving paul off guard and Augusta was able to defeat him. Paul was astonished after he lost against him again and angry left the dojo.

Chapter 18: Determination and...

Paul sneak to the dojo and finds that Lilia is training, she was surprised and drop her sword showing her hands with blood for the training, Paul tries to Seduce Lilia but she reject him, Lilia was angry with Paul and how hel was accepted by her father but he mostly spend his time doing nothing,  meanwhile the others put a lot of effort in the training, after that Paul leave.

Some time later, the amount of battle between Paul and Augusta exceeded 20 battles, but Paul still wasn't able to have more wins than Augusta. After talking a bit, Augusta declined the battle for tomorrow because the current Water God is going to arrive. Lilia and other students, surprised, decided to clean up the dojo meanwhile Paul asked to himself how she may be.

Chapter 19: Water God Reida.

Paul arrives at the dojo and finds that there are more people than usual and the dojo roof was destroyed and finds that Augusta was talking with the Water god Reida. Augusta asks her why she broke the roof and tells that it is cool to arrive from above. After talking a bit, Reida challenged Augusta to a sparring duel and he accepted. Paul observes the battle until Reida uses a strange movement and disarms Augusta. After talking a bit, Reida decides stay for some time in the dojo.

Chapter 20: Signs of turmoil.

On the night Augusta family, Reida and Paul were at dinner, Reida talked with Augusta and asked for Lilia sword and wanted to see her swordsmanship, meanwhile Paul and Flute felt left out with their conversations. For the next few days, Paul was seducing some women again in the street and decided to go to the dojo after some. He finds that Lilia was angry with him because some thugs that were defeated by Paul and his group in the past were searching for him for vengeance and were causing problems in the dojo. Even though they were repelled by his father and the water god, this was damaging the reputation of the place and wanted to kick Paul from the house, Paul say that is his father decision and she decides to attack him meanwhile discharge her emotions, when he was avoiding some attacks, Paul hear a voice and was able to deflect a attack from Reida, Saying that Augusta was right and he was the skill, Reida attack him and Paul tries to counter attack meanwhile she smile.

Chapter 21: Paul VS Reida.

Paul was in the floor without understanding what happened, Reida tells him that he have the talent but not the desire of the strength and is a waste, and tell to Augusta that she decides to train him personally, Paul was angry how they decide without his permission (As a note, he dont see her as a desirable woman, only like another opponent), Reida tell him that she is going to let him if he was able to scratch her, with Reida provocation, Paul attack but was defeated.

The next day Agusta arrived where Paul was sleeping with another random woman again, Paul was demotivated because Reida was a monster, Augusta said that he may increase his water god style rank. When Paul arrived at the dojo, the other students were angry about how he was disrespectful with Reida. Paul was feeling stressed like when he lived in his house.

Chapter 22: Plague God.

Reida was training at the dojo, and after training a bit decided to challenge Paul again and he accepted. Paul suddenly awakened in his bed in the house of Augusta and discovered that he fainted without knowing how he lost again. Paul fell hungry and decides to go to the kitchen, finding Flute drinking wine, she tells him that there are not food and was sad and angry how Augusta and Lilia spend so much time in swordsmanship with Reida and blames Paul for that, saying that he is the Plague God because he made everyone around him unhappy, after a tantrum of her, Paul decides to return to his bedroom, and thinks that is better to leave soon, but he dont know where is his sword after he was knocked up by Reida, still decides to spend the night outside. In the next day he arrives to the dojo to search for his sword, but he wasn't able to find it, also Reida, Augusta and Lilia are absent, the other students see that he dont posee a sword right now and decides to mock him with attacks, Paul angry asked if they hide his sword but they deny that, calling him the Plague God.

Chapter 23: The true intentions of Augusta.

Paul angry with the other student, fight against them using a style similar of Rudd (like a north god style), defeating everyone in the dojo, Paul asked again where is his sword but they weren't able to answer and decides to leave the Dojo, ignoring Lilia that arrived and was watching the situation.

When Paul was in a restaurant, Augusta found him, Paul told him that he doesn't want to return to the dojo but Augusta tells him that he already knew the situation from Lilia and tells him that she has his sword and the students are going to be punished. Paul asks Augusta why he has an obsession with him, he tells him that even if Lilia is doing her best, it is not enough to be the Dojo Instructor, So he wanted Paul to marry Lilia and inherit the dojo, because he had a great potential. After the conversation Augusta  wanted to teach something new to Paul, but he says that he cannot teach anything new anymore and uses a cheap sword obtained in the dojo to fight. Thanks to Reida training, he was able to counter a counter attack from Augusta and win. Augusta was surprised how much growth in a short amount of time, Paul says that this cut his relations, but Reida arrives breaking the cheap sword of Paul, and tells him that the training continues tomorrow and he needs to return to the house.

Chapter 24: The worst farewell.

In the night inside of Augusta House, Paul decides to leave, but before that he remembers that Lilia had his sword, so he decides to sneak to her room. When he enters he finds his sword and after that he sees Lilia sleeping face, and remembers the words of Augusta about the marriage, and how he recently was spending time only with women older than him, and decides to get on her bed. Lilia awakens and tries to shout but Paul stops her and decides to vent his recent frustrations with her.

Some hours after, before the dawn, Paul awake and remember the things that he do to Lilia, and thinks how may react their fathers (and probably how Augusta may force his marriage with Lilia) so he decides to escape, but when he leaves the house, he find that Reida was waiting for him, because she suspected that he may ran away (also she in unaware the recent events with Lilia), after discussing they start to fight, because he know that he can't win, decides to focus to escape and because all the training with Reida, he was able to deflect her attack and ran away. Reida was surprised that he was able to do that even though she wasn't doing her best and decided to let him away.