This article may require a
cleanup
 to meet the wiki's
quality standards
.
Please
revise this page
 to fix any grammatical errors, poor wording, formatting and other issues.

Pax Shirone
 (
パックス・シーローン
,

Pakkusu Shīrōn
)
 is
Zanoba Shirone
's younger brother and
Roxy
's former student.

The former Seventh Prince of the
Kingdom of Shirone
. After various problems related to
Rudeus Greyrat
, Pax was sent to study abroad at
Dragon King Kingdom
. Years later, he came back to the Kingdom of Shirone and initiated a coup to become the new king. A short time later, he committed suicide.

One of his future subordinates would have been a parent of
Demon God Laplace
's reincarnation.

Appearance

His first appearance as a child, he was shown to be quite round being short and with short limbs. Rudeus said that he looked like a hobbit and a dwarf pieced together.

Years later, when he returned from exile, he seemed more mature and a little more intimidating. He had lost some weight and gained muscle.

Personality

During Pax's introduction, he was a spoiled, abrasive and cruel person. He was also a sexual deviant, constantly forcing himself on girls he has power over. He seemed to be sadistic and has no regard for human life, as he has all of his servant's families held hostage, and boasted that he would execute Rudeus after raping Roxy as he watches.

It was later revealed that his vile personality was stemmed from deeply seated inferiority complex that developed when he failed to earn Roxy's approval. Desperate for Roxy's attention, he began to commit increasingly serious pranks and offences, which alienated Roxy further, forming a vicious cycle.

In an attempt to get a good life during his exile, his personality changed almost completely. He stopped being lazy and became diligent. However, his inferiority complex stemmed from being unloved and untrusted remained, which was exploited by
Hitogami
's apostles and led to his eventual downfall.

Background

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Pax Shirone is the Seventh Prince of Shirone Kingdom. Due to his position, it is difficult for him to become king, so not many people pay attention to him. For this reason, he manipulates people who do not want to take his side with threats.

Plot

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Volume 2 - Juvenile Period - Home Teacher Chapter

Pax studied magic for 5 years with Roxy as a teacher. Roxy constantly sets him on fire in order to stop his advances. Right before the Metastasis event, he threatens Roxy with attacking Rudeus if she doesn't stay as her teacher. Roxy doesn't care and leaves, while Pax is punished.

Volume 6 - Juvenile Period - Homecoming Chapter

In an attempt to lure Roxy back, Pax kidnaps
Lilia
 and
Aisha
. The goal is for Roxy to fall into a magical barrier so Pax can do whatever he wants with her.

The plan is completely ruined by
Rudeus Greyrat
 due to the fact that he happened to meet Pax's half-brother,
Zanoba Shirone
. Zanoba nearly kills Pax but is stopped by his other brothers.

Pax is arrested and Rudeus's family are released. In the end, the king exiles Pax and sends him to the King Dragon Kingdom so he doesn't have to assassinate him. Zanoba is exiled to the Kingdom of Ranoa.

Volume 19 - Young Man Period - Subordinates Chapter

During his exile in the King Dragon Kingdom, Pax decided to change and he did. He lost weight, gained muscle, and learned magic. He fell in love with the 18th princess,
Benedict Kingdragon
, but although he obtained good grades and attracted the king's attention, his exile status did not allow him to marry a princess. Because the Shirone Kingdom did not accept the King Dragon Kingdom's proposals, they sent Pax to take power by force.

Pax returned to the Shirone Kingdom along 10 skilled knights including one of the
Seven Great Powers
,
Randolph Marianne
 the Death God. With their help, he carried out a coup killing all the royalty. Pax became the new king, although the kingdom was weakened by the recent civil war so he decides to send a letter to Zanoba to ask for help. Zanoba says he will work with him but does not pledge allegiance to him.

Zanoba departs for Shirone Kingdom along with Rudeus and Roxy. Pax sends Zanoba, Roxy, and Rudeus to defend an important position. Meanwhile, there is a rebellion against Pax in the capital due to which he gets depressed, as the country won't accept him as the new king and locks himself in his castle and makes his wife pregnant. When the group gets to his room, they have an argument in which Pax releases all of his anger and feelings that he held back for years. He verbally attacks Roxy, who never complimented his progress always comparing him to Rudeus, while she can only bite her lip.

Pax admits that he cannot bear that much load and jumps from the fifth floor, dying instantly.

Power and Abilities

Intermediate Rank Water Magic

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Equipment

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Achievements

Securing the Throne of Shirone:
 Pax orchestrates a successful coup d'état, seizing control of Shirone with the support of the King Dragon Kingdom. He strategically utilizes the elite knights provided by King Dragon, demonstrating a degree of tactical planning and political maneuvering.

Winning Benedikte's Affection:
 Pax manages to win the heart of Benedikte Kingdragon, the sixteenth princess of the King Dragon Kingdom. He captivates her with elaborate tales of his (often exaggerated) exploits, providing her with an escape from her isolated life. This unlikely pairing showcases Pax's charisma and his ability to connect with others on an emotional level.

Earning Randolph's Loyalty:
 Pax gains the respect and loyalty of Randolph Marianne, the Death God and fifth of the Seven Great Powers. While Randolph initially treats Pax with indifference, he gradually comes to appreciate Pax's genuine personality and his surprising resilience. Pax's ability to win over such a powerful and enigmatic figure speaks to his hidden depths.

Implementing Reforms in Shirone:
 Pax, despite his flaws, demonstrates a genuine desire to improve Shirone. He dismisses corrupt officials, appoints more deserving individuals to positions of power, and takes steps to bolster the kingdom's defenses. These actions, though overshadowed by his more ruthless actions, suggest a capacity for leadership and a vision for a stronger Shirone.

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Quotes

Pax: “The discussion we had before…”

Randolph: “Your wish is my command.”

Pax: “Good”

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Trivia

According to
Orsted
, Pax was destined to carry out a coup around the year K457, abolished the monarchy and founded the Shirone Republic. Currently, this is impossible due to Pax's death.