I have a request for those who read this book. There is a child of the Dragon Race who does not know his name in this world. Please tell this child his name... This child has silvery hair, and must be a nameless man by now. Please tell him, "Your real true name is Perugius." Perugius, son of Dora-sama, the Great Dragon King Dora

-Laplace

Perugius Dola
 (
ペルギウス
・
ドーラ
)
 is a high-ranking member of the
Dragon Tribe
, holding the title of "Armored Dragon King", and one of the Seven Great Heroes who sealed away Demon God
Laplace
 500 years ago. He currently resides in the floating castle Chaos Breaker, where he awaits the Demon God's revival.

His storyline is one of the major plot threads left unresolved when Mushoku Tensei ended. This storyline maybe resolved in the planned “sequel” series. The author has clarified that this
will not be a direct sequel
. Instead it'll be set within the ‘
six-sided universe
’ some 80 years in the future. There will be some characters returning but none of the main characters.

Appearance

Perugius has an appearance similar to
Orsted
, but does not have a curse of being hated. Perugius has gleaming silver hair, sanpaku eyes with golden pupils and an aura of nobility radiates from his entire body.

Personality

Due to the Laplace War, Perugius holds intense animosity against all Demon Races. However, he is not insufferably stubborn, willing to bend his own rule for the sake of people who earn his favor. For example, he gave Rudeus his blessing to sell
Ruijerd
 figures because Rujierd once helped in dealing the decisive hit against Laplace in the past. Also, despite his dislike in politics, he still offered his assistance to Zanoba when the latter going back to Shirone, by letting
Roxy
 travel through the sky fortress. Perugius often allows the main characters to teleport to various locations in the
Human World
, showing he is kindhearted beneath his serious face especially to those he has taken a liking or for his amusement.

Perugius loves art and takes pride in his collections. He's very interested in
Rudeus
' figurines, just like
Zanoba
.

Background

Dora
 spawns the egg of Perugius prematurely about the same time Laplace was battling the culprit responsible for
Crystal
's death. Days later, Laplace informs Dora of the capture of the culprit to the relief of Dora. Dora then presents Perugius' egg to Laplace and asks him to name her child but Laplace was reluctant since he does not know if its a boy or girl but Dora assures him that her child is a boy, so Laplace names him Perugius and becomes his God Father.
 After the
First Dragon God
 defeats the Five Dragon Generals, Dora asks Laplace to bring Perugius' egg to the
Human World
 and has not been heard
 until he was introduced by Dragon God
Urupen
 to the
Adventure Guild
 is given the title "Armored Dragon" like her mother. Working under Urupen, Perugius is in the party with
North God

Kalman I
, Twin Emperor Migus and Gumis during the
Laplace Wars
.








Perugius became famous after rebuilding the ancient sky castle Chaos Breaker, and challenged Laplace with his companions. In honor of his deeds a new era was named after the war called the Armored Dragon era.

His companion North God Kalman the first defeated and married Laplace's most feared demon lord,
Atoferatofe
. Kalman made Perugius and Atofe promise not to kill each other. After the Laplace campaign he spent some time as a guest of Asura Kingdom, as an equal of King Asura. During this period he came to describe the king as his friend, but he grew tired of court life and later moved a life of seclusion. He sits afloat Sky Castle [Chaos Breaker] and travels the world preparing for the Laplace's revival.

Plot

Mushoku Tensei

Volume 2 - Juvenille Period - Home Teacher Chapter

He, like
Orsted
 and
Kishirika Kishirisu
 noticed how the abnormal
mana
 gathering occurred at the
Fittoa Region
's sky that and as a result he sent his servant,
Almanfi
, to investigate and kill any suspicious person involved in it to prevent the seal on Laplace from being undone.

Mushoku Tensei Sequel

Perugius' quest to kill Demon God
Laplace
 is one of the major plot thread that remained unresolved by the end of Mushoku Tensei. Because of this, he is likely to once again play a major role in the planned sequel series, which is set around the time in which the latter is said to finally resurrect.

Power and Abilities

Summoning Magic and Teleportation

Perugius is widely seen as a first class expert in Teleportation Magic initially researched by Crystal and Summoning magic inherited from Dora.  He has teleportation circles throughout the world and is also able to summon people to his castle with the aid of a magic tool.  As such, he is an extremely convenient "taxi service" according to Rudeus.

Magic Circles

Aside from creating Teleportation Circles, Perugius is so knowledgeable in creating Summoning Circles that he is able to rewrite the Summoning Circle that Orsted gave to Rudeus to summon the
Guardian Beast
 for the protection of his family.

Dragon Gate

Perugius raises his hands while chanting to summon two Dragon Gates at once when he confronts
Atoferatofe Raibaku
. The ornate silver Dragon Gate Drains magic power similar to Orsted's Dragon Gate while the ornate gold Dragon Gate drains
Battle Aura
 rendering Atofe unable to fight back nor escape.

11 Ancient Spirits






11 Ancient Spirits in the Anime Teaser



Perugius is also able to summon 11 ancient spirits of high intelligence and power that stays with him as long as he lives.  Even if one of them were to be defeated, Perugius has the ability to re-summon them at his castle.

Almanfi of the Bright

Almanfi is the first of the familiars that is introduced in the series, he is described as loyal, respectful and knightly.  He has the ability to instantly travel anywhere in the world that has light, this ability makes him a scout of sorts to Perugius and is often the one that makes the first move in any situation. In terms of combat he was able to match blows against
Ghislaine
 a sword king, though he got defeated pretty quickly by the Water God, as such though never directly stated he should be around Low-King Level. At one point, Rudeus annulled Perugius' contract with Almanfi and summoned him as his own guardian by mistake.

Yuruzu of Atonement

Aside from Almanfi we do not know much of Perugius other familiars. Yuruzu has the ability to transfer vitality between two people, as such he is basically the healer of Chaos Breaker.

Sukeakoto of Time

Sukeakoto has the ability to stop time for the person he is touching, though this ability also stops his own time.
 But despite the time of its subject is stopped some functions are still working like when the effects of the time stop is cancelled, the subject will be very hungry.

Clearnight of Thunder

His power allows him to listen to everything that is inside Chaos Breaker and a special flute that is given to those who are granted entry to Chaos Breaker

Dotbath of Destruction

Upon being summoned by Rudeus, Arumanfi told him that Dotbath of Destruction will be able to "destroy" the contract between them.

Karowante of Insight

Karowante is able to determine a persons powers and also the condition of a sick person

The following familiars are shown to be with Perugius though their powers were not yet revealed.

Trophimus of the Wave

Harkenmail of Life

Gall of Earthquake

Furiousful of Fury

Paramount of Darkness

Armored Dragon King Hand Sword(Break)

Summons a light that can sever an immortal demon lord in two. On his latest confrontation with Atofe, Perugius initially uses Dragon Gate to drain her magic and Battle Aura then finishes her off with Armored Dragon King Hand Sword (Break).

Equipment

Chaos Breaker

Chaos Breaker is a sky fortress that Perugius rebuilt during the Laplace Wars and later became his home as well as a transport to travel around the world.

It is unknown if his armour has any significance, but he is always seen wearing it, showing his readiness for battle.

Achievements

He was one of the three heroes to defeat Laplace, alongside Ruijerd's help which he feels indebted to.

Quotes

To Rudeus: "In this world there are three people you should never fight: Technique God, Fighting God, and Dragon God. Among those three, Dragon God Orsted is the strongest and the most ruthless. Even though I respect your determination to protect your family, and am curious of that Human God... I do not want to get involved. Until Laplace revives, I don't plan on dying."

Trivia

Apparently he had a bad naming sense stated by Rudeus as he named Rudeus fourth child
Saladin
.

He swore to defeat Laplace for the sake of revenge to his 3 dear friends (
Urupen
,
Kalman I
, and
Kaunis Freean Asura
).

His English voice actor
Kenny James
 is most famous for being the current voice actor to
Bowser
 of the super Mario games.

References

Navigation

Perugius Faction

Leader

Perugius Dola

Members

Almanfi
  •
Sylvaril
 •
Yuzuru
 •
Karowante
 •
Sukeakoto
 •
Dotbath