This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

Information

Appearance

Philip Boreas Greyrat
 is the father of
Eris Boreas Greyrat
 and the husband of
Hilda Boreas Greyrat
.

Appearance

Slender body and bright tea-colored hair. he is often depicted with his eyes narrowed and smiling.

Personality






Philip explaining his love of the Beast Race in the Anime



Like all of the Boreas Family, Philip has a love for the
Beast Race
.
 Philip can be a kind and lenient man, giving
Rudeus Greyrat
 a chance at a tutoring job despite believing that Paul is exaggerating. He usually presents himself as an elegant and smart gentleman, unlike his father
Sauros Boreas Greyrat
. He also has a more playful side that he won't shy from asking Eris to perform the "Boreas Greyrat etiquette" when they try ask Rudeus for a favor.

Despite losing to his brother during the power struggle to succeed the Boreas Greyrat family, he remained cunning and ambitious, always scheming in the dark to get back into power with the intent of using Rudeus to be the next head of the Boreas Family.

Rudeus describes Philip to be extremely resourceful and efficient, and is always having fun watching Rudeus move behind the scenes as he tries to do something. He also sees Philip to taking his fight to the inner Asura Kingdom.

Background

Philip, of the
Boreas Greyrat
 family, is Eris Greyrat's father and Cousin of
Paul Greyrat
. When Paul came to him asking for a job he made him a low ranking knight so that he would be able to provide for
his wife
 and soon to be born son. Philip became the mayor of the
Citadel of Roa
 after losing the bid to become the next head of the Boreas Family and Lord of the
Fittoa Region
 that was initiated by Sauros. As a result, Philip's two sons were taken from him to be raised by
James Boreas Greyrat
 as per Boreas tradition.

Plot

At the request of Paul, Philip hires Rudeus that he reluctantly accepted him to be her daughter's tutor where he shows interest on Rudeus' plan and arrange that they both be kidnapped.

After Rudeus' birthday party, Philip discusses his plans from behind the scenes to make Rudeus the head of the Boreas Family to that was previously impossible with Eris but Rudeus dismisses it as merely drinking chatter.

In the aftermath of the
Teleport Incident
, Philip and Hilda are teleported to the Conflict Zone at the southern part of the
Central Continent
 where they are captured and tortured to death.

Legacy

Eris: "If he were still alive and could see us now, I wonder what he'd think about it."

Rudeus: "I figure he'd be delighted."

Ghislaine Dedoldia
 is also teleported in the Conflict Zone but by the time she reaches Philip and Hilda, they are already dead

Ghislaine buries their remains up a hillock at the base of a tree, erected wooden grave markers with their names while grateful that she was taught how to write by Rudeus then travels back to Roa.

The
Princess Ariel Faction
 suspects that Philip is plotting to overthrow the Notos Family by using
Sylphiette
 who is teleported to the Silver Palace so they made their own countermeasures to prepare while he is still missing.

Paul mentions that Philip would always denounce him during their childhood but on Rudeus' 10th birthday, Philip sends Paul a letter with his intent of Rudeus to be married into the Boreas Family and become Eris' wife to which Paul replies that he can do what he wants

Paul later tells this marriage arrangement to Rudeus and they both concluded that Philip pulled a blind one over them as they both sigh.

Rudeus and Eris visits their graves in the Conflict Zone through details provided by Ghislaine and
Soldat Heckler
.

Rudeus and Eris digs up their bones to be reburied in Asura Kingdom instead of Fittoa Region which is still rebuilding.

Rudeus consults with
Luke Notos Greyrat
 who directs them to a graveyard created by the previous king which is marked: "Here rests the ferocious lion" and buries the remains of Philip and Hilda there instead of the Boreas Family Graveyard.

After graduating from
Asura Royal Academy
, Rudeus sees
Christina Greyrat
 to resemble Philip's figure or aura somehow but finds it natural since Chris is Philip's grand daughter.

Trivia

His two sons never appear in the web novel or the light novel.

In the anime, he has a ponytail like Paul.

He has close relationship with Paul when they were kids (Paul Gaiden story)

References