The Playback Miko's real name was
Lilia
 (
リリア
,

Riria
)
. Like the other Mikos, the name was taken from her and she became a tool for the strong. Her power was the ability to to rewind time to a maximum of 24 hours.

Appearance

The Playback Miko was born with a blank expression, similar to the dead.

Personality

Due to her fate of being forced to repeat the same life continuously, the Playback Miko realized her fate in every timeline would only be slightly different, and would always end in her horrible and early death. Each time she died, a new nightmare. Eventually, her mind breaks and she becomes a vacant and obedient machine with one continuous reel of her death playing.

Background

She was born in the
Armored Dragon Calendar Year 500
. Regardless of the timeline, the Playback Miko is born in a remote countryside and is shunned by adults and children alike. At the age of 5, soldiers would take her away. With some variation, she is usually captured, imprisoned, and passed between ruling powers until she dies at the age of 10, or earlier.

Plot

Volume 24 - Final Volume - Conclusion Chapter

A girl is born with the power to rewind time of an object to a maximum of 24 hours. She is able to divert death, and disease, as such, she is coveted by nations. Regardless of her abilities, no matter what she did, she could not change her fate. Over the course of centuries, she attempted to change her destiny, but could never end the hellish loop of her birth and death. Eventually, she would reach a horrible death, watching herself be beaten to death, eaten, massacred, and dying shackled as a puppet to the strong.

In one playback, she is used in a magic formation and a boy,
Shinohara Akito
 is summoned to serve as that Kingdom's hero. The boy was different and since she was able to understand him, her world changed. She becomes his interpreter and fell in love with him. But he was no hero but just a normal highschool boy o so during the battle with an enemy Kingdom, he was beheaded and by the time the Lilia found him, 24 hours have already passed and it was too late for her to revive him.

Due to the emotional impact of losing Akito, Lilia opened a rift in time and space in the past so that she and Akito could live together, and the world looped with the girl as the core. This rift appeared in the past (K400) in the skies of the
City of Roa
 where the boy had died. The Miko tried to summon a soul with a strong relationship with the boy, with the same wish as the girl who wanted to live together with him. But the power of the world was too strong for her. But after some time a stray soul from Japan passed through the rift and desided in the body of a baby named
Rudeus Greyrat
. (K407)

This soul changed the world, weakening its resistance. Lilia used all of her remaining power and summoned
Nanahoshi Shizuka
 (K417), causing the
Mana Calamity
 in the middle of Roa.

A few years after Rudeus's death (K481) the Miko was reborn drained from her powers, unable to loop again.

Power and Abilities

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Equipment

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Achievements

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Quotes

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Trivia

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.