This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!





King Class Protection Magic in the Anime



Barrier Magic
 is one of the four systems of
Healing Magic (magic category)
. It is a kind of support magic that creates a magical barrier to raise one's defense, to block movement and magic, or to invoke certain characteristics within the barrier’s area (i.e. nullifying magic activation
, increasing or decreasing regeneration rate
, distorting space
).

Background





Protection Magic in the Anime



Barrier Magic properties are divided into anti-physical and anti-magical. Anti-physical barriers were considered an
Intermediate-level
 technique, and upon reaching
Saint-class
 and above, the properties of both anti-physical and anti-magical barriers can be combined to create barriers with special traits
. Barrier Magic relies more on the usage of magic circles compared to chanting which requires a continuous flow of
Mana
 to maintain that is usually supplied by a Magic Crystal or other equivalent mediums. As such, the usual way to neutralize a barrier is by searching and destroying the magic crystal.
.

Barrier Magic is not well-known around the world, but it is very advanced in the Holy Milis Kingdom
. Normally, only
elementary level
 can be taught as Milis Religious Orders are the only ones who have the rights to teach higher level Barrier Magic
.

Perugius Dola
 is presently the world's best Barrier Magic user with
God-class
 abilities in this magic type.

When
Rudeus
 visits the Shirone Royal Palace, he is trapped with a King Class Barrier Magic that
Pax Shirone
 plans to use to lure
Roxy Migurdia
.

Barrier Magic Users

Perugius Dola

After the battle of Biheiril Kingdom,
Perugius
 accepted
Dragon God Orsted
's request and made the
God-class
  Barrier Magic (originally created in order to seal the
Demon God
) to seal
Badigadi
. This barrier magic sealed
Badigadi
's main body and 4 other body parts in 5 different places in Earth Dragon Valley. The barrier sealing the main body could not be destroyed unless all of the remaining 4 seals were destroyed first. The barrier was operating using the mana of
Badigadi
’s body, which was further amplified with the Dragon King Sword and Fighting God Armor as a catalyst. Thus making the barrier powerful enough that not even
Orsted
 could break out of it and giving it the ability to self-sustainedly operate almost forever.

Orsted

According to
Hitogami
,
Orsted
 can use the techniques and arts of all living things in the world, including Barrier Magic.

Shilard

Holy Dragon Emperor Shilard created a magical barrier surround each Teleport Ruin, which distorted the space inside it and hide the Teleport Ruin from the physical world. When a
magician
 places his/her hand on top of the nearby stone monument, reading the incantation while pouring mana into it, then the space around the stone monument will start to distort and change into the Teleport Ruin.

The incantation to open the magical barrier surround each Teleport Ruin:
"That dragon lived solely while following its faith. Nothing is able to escape from the grasp of those grand arms. The second dragon that died. He who possesses the most ephemeral eyes Dragon General of Lustrous Green Scales. Borrowing the name of the Holy Dragon Emperor Shilard, I now pierce that barrier."

Randolph Marianne

Randolph
 possesses the
Absolute Void Eye
, which can create a magical barrier around a large area. He used it in the siege of Shirone Royal Castle to construct a barrier around the entire castle, holding off the enemy's force, buying time for
King Pax
 and
Queen Benedict
.

Rudeus Greyrat

Rudeus first learned
Elementary-class
 Barrier Magic 『Magic Shield』 in class during his first year at
Ranoa Magic Academy
.
 He later reached
Intermediate-class
 Barrier Magic by training with
Orsted
.

Cliff Grimoire

When Cliff first met
Rudeus
 in his second year at
Ranoa Magic Academy
, he introduced himself as
Elementary-class
 but soon-to-be
Intermediate-class
 in Barrier Magic.
 In his fourth year, he used his Barrier Magic to help
Rudeus
 with the research on
Mana Absorbing Stone
.
 Upon Cliff's graduation from
Ranoa Magic Academy
, he had reached the
Intermediate rank
 in Barrier Magic.
 During the battle of Biheiril Kingdom, Cliff created various barrier magic circles throughout the forest of Earth Dragon Valley that was set to activate when
Badigadi
’s limbs were thrown into them to stop the limbs' regeneration.

Members of Anastasia Keep

The members of Anastasia Keep, the strongest group in the Order of the Temple who protects the
Miko of Memory
 are capable of using all
Advanced-class
 barrier magic.
 They utilized a
King-class
 barrier in an attempt to capture
Rudeus
, which was erased by
Rudeus
’s
Mana Absorbing Stone
.
 During battle, their signature barrier magic is the
Elementary-class
 『Magic Shield』, which takes the physical shape of a translucent shield and they used it in conjunction with the
Water God Style
 to stop
Rudeus
’s 『Rock Bullet』.

Barrier Magic in Holy Milis Kingdom

The Holy Milis Kingdom has been a country that's very advanced in
healing magic
 and barrier magic since the past. However, even in Holy Milis Kingdom, most of the people will only learn them until the
elementary rank
.

During the war against
Demon God Laplace
, the whole Milis continent was protected by a holy barrier, which, toward the final day of the war, made Holy Milis Kingdom the final kingdom of human race and humanity's last stand.

Holy Milis Kingdom's capital, Milishion, is constantly protected by a magic barrier projected by 7 magic towers. The magic barrier protects the capital from external threats as well as serves as the mean to control the weather.

The
Millishion Holy Knight Orders
 are the only ones who have the rights to teach barrier magic beyond the
Elementary-level
. Even if magicians can use higher tier barrier magic, they cannot teach them, or else they will be excommunicated from the
Milis religion
 and may face a heresy inquisition.

The Pope of Milis's office was protected by a magic barrier of at least
Saint-class
 or
King-class
, which prevent the usage of magic inside.

Barrier Magic in Ranoa Magic Academy

Ranoa Magic Academy
 is limited to only an
Elementary-level
 class on barrier magic. Even though the teachers can use higher tier barrier magic, they cannot teach them. Originally, even an
Elementary-level
 class on barrier magic was not allowed, however, after the year
K420
, provided certain conditions were followed, limited teaching was authorized. Because of such limiting circumstances, the focus of the class shifts more to the methods of how magical barriers can be broken instead.

Trivia

100,000 years ago
, there was a magical barrier that separated the 7 ancient worlds. The barrier was destroyed
10,000-20,000 years ago
 by the first generation Dragon God.

References