Quest of Memories Game Visual

Mushoku Tensei ~I'll be serious when I go to another world~ Quest of Memories
 (
無職転生 ～異世界行ったら本気だす～ Quest of Memories
)
 is an RPG game for PC that is developed by LANCARSE Ltd and published by Bushiroad Games to be released on June 20, 2024.

The game will be available on Steam, Nintendo Switch, PS4 and PS5.

Story

The story of Mushoku Tensei ~I'll be serious when I go to another world~ Quest of Memories revolves around Rudeus and Eris, who are transported to the
Demon Continent
 due to the
Teleport Incident
 and it begins with their encounter of Ruijerd...

In addition to the familiar story from the
Anime
, the game also includes many original game scenarios!

As you interact with original characters and complete quests, The adventures of Dead End is depicted more clearly as they journey back to
Asura Kingdom
...!

Furthermore, the events regarding Sylphiette's journey, Roxy together with Elinalise and Talhand on their journey on the Demon Continent which have not been depicted until now will be revealed in the game...!

Challenge various difficulties that befall Rudeus and his friends.
How would you overcome it?

Gameplay

World Map
Fields
Battle System
Mini Games




Visit various towns and fields viewed from above the
Human World
 that offers various treasure chests and areas to complete your progression.






Enjoy an Immersive adventure in the fields while uncovering the map with the auto mapping functions







Turn based battle with high strategic play. Battle
Monsters
 while exploring the field where you utilize various mechanics such as Magic chants.







Play various mini games like a management simulation game where Roxy helps run a restaurant.



--To be Added--

Playable Characters

Rudeus Greyrat

Sylphiette

Roxy Migurdia

Eris Boreas Greyrat

Ghislaine Dedoldia

Ruijerd Superdia

Videos










Mushoku Tensei- jobless reincarnation Quest of Memories 2nd new trailer revealed!!

Teaser Trailer



Gallery

Rudeus Greyrat
Sylphiette
Roxy Migurdia
Eris Boreas Greyrat
Ghislaine Dedoldia
Ruijerd Superdia

External Links

Mushoku Tensei Game Page (Japanese):
https://mushokutensei-qom.bushiroadgames.com/

Youtube Channel:
https://www.youtube.com/@BushiroadOfficial

Twitter:
https://twitter.com/mushokutensei_Q

References