This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

There are a variety of races that exist on the
Six-Faced World
. Around
20,000 to 10,000 years ago
, the War of the Gods resulted in the the fall of the other five worlds and all the survivors fled to the
Human World
 and settled in their suitable habitats. Consequently, the Human World is now populated by multiple Races
.

Human

Paul Greyrat, A male Human Warrior in the Anime
Zenith Greyrat, A Female Human in the Anime
Human nobles attending a party
1/3

Humans
 (人族,
Jinzoku
) are the most dominant race in the world. Similar to humans on earth, the human race in the Human World have relatively weak physique, short lifespan and high intelligence such that most innovations in the world are the work of humans and have the most developed civilization compared to other races.
 They are the majority race in the
Central Continent
,
Begaritt Continent
 and
Millis Continent
. Humans on the Central Continent and Millis Continent speaks Human Tongue with slightly differing accents, whereas humans on Begaritt Continent speaks Fighting God tongue.

Most of the important characters in series are humans. Some prominent humans in series include:

Rudeus Greyrat

Eris Boreas Greyrat

Ariel Anemoi Asura

Zanoba Shirone

Nanahoshi Shizuka

See list of human characters:
Category:Human

Elf

Elinalise, a female Elf in the Anime
Elinalise, a female Elf in the Light Novel
1/2

Elves (
長耳族
,
Erufu,
 lit. "Long Ear Tribe") are a race of people who currently live in the southern part of the
Great Forest
 in the Millis Continent. They are sometimes classified as demon race, but it was possible that they are new species that developed during the Chaotic Period. As their name implies, their most prominent physical characteristic is their long and pointy ears, which provides them with very good hearing ability. Other than that, they usually have a slim body, whereas female elves tend to be flat-chested. Their fertility is rather low, but they have very long lifespans, capable of staying in their prime for hundreds of years. They also have a very good sense of direction, able to navigate effortlessly even in difficult terrains like the Great Forest and deserts
.

It is said that magic was originally created by the High Elves, the ancestors of Elves. Long before even the Great Human-Demon War, when the world was engulfed in the unceasing spiral of battle and chaos, the High Elves, in order to fight their enemies, entreated with the spirits of the forests to control the wind and the earth. And thus, the first magic spells were born
.

List of known Elves:

Elinalise Dragonroad

Rayfort Magnafold

Laws
 (Elf-Human hybrid)

Fariasteer (Elf-Human hybrid)

Randolph Marianne
 (Elf-Human-Magic Demon Race hybrid)

Clive Grimoire
 (Elf-Human-Halfling hybrid)

Sylphiette Greyrat
 (Elf-Human-Beast Race Hybrid)

Lucy Greyrat
 (Elf-Human-Beast Race Hybrid)

Sieghardt Saladin Greyrat
 (Elf-Human-Beast Race Hybrid)

Roland Grimoire
 (Elf-Human-Beast Race-Halfling Hybrid)

Dwarf

Talhand, a male Dwarf in the Anime
Julie a female Dwarf in the Anime
1/2

Dwarves
 (
炭鉱族
,
Dowaafu
, lit. "Coal Mine Tribe") are a race of people who currently live at the foot of the Blue Dragon Mountain Range in the Millis Continent
. They are sometimes classified as demon race, but it was possible that they are new species that developed during the Chaotic Period. Dwarves are short in height: male dwarves have a stout build, whereas female dwarves are similar to young human females. They love alcohol and are highly tolerant against it. Their lifespan is longer of humans, capable of living for at least several hundred years
.

As a race of craftsmen and blacksmiths by birth, dwarves have naturally dexterous hands and high affinity towards earth and fire magic, but abhorred water and wind magic. They are adept in crafting weapons, armors and various arts, and the best craftsman would have the chance to ascend as the Ore God. Culture wise, dwarves would raise all children of the same generation together, and they would treat each other as siblings
. They won't get an official name until they are seven, and when they do, they receive a name that's fashioned after something they're good at, something they're attracted to, or something they like
.

List of known Dwarves:

Talhand

Julie

Godbard

Halflings/Hobbits

Cliff Grimoire, a Hobbit Hybrid in the Anime
1/1

Halflings
, also called
Hobbits
 (
小人族
,
Hobitto
, lit. "Small People Tribe") are a race of people who currently live in the northwestern part of the
Great Forest
 in the Millis Continent, with populations in
Zant Port
 and
Millishion
. They are sometimes classified as a demon race, but it is possible that they were a new species that developed during the Chaotic Period. They are small in stature and look like human children; it is believed (namely by Paul Greyrat) that they use this resemblance to deceive people.

List of known Halflings:

Gaa Fuu

Wi Suu

Wii Taa

Mi'Nal

Cliff Grimoire
 (Human/Halfling Hybrid)

Clive Grimoire
 (Human/Elf/Halfling Hybrid)

Roland Grimoire
 (Human/Elf/Beast Race/Halfling Hybrid)

Dragon Race

Orsted the Dragon God in the Anime
1/1

Main article:
Dragon Tribe

Dragon Race
 (龍族,
Ryuzoku
) are the original inhabitants of the Dragon World, and the strongest of all races in terms of fundamental physical capabilities. They have wings, powerful talons and tough scales, and are the first race that could wield
battle aura
 effectively. They could live for more than a hundred thousand years, thus they only have children every several thousand years
. After the fall of the five remaining worlds, most of the dragon race perished with the Dragon World, whereas many of the remaining members escaped to the Human World were killed by other races as an act of vengeance. As a result, very few dragon race members remain in the present days
.

List of Dragon Race:

Laplace
 (Dragon-Demon Hybrid)

Orsted
 (Dragon-Human Deity Hybrid)

Perugius Dola

Urupen

First Dragon God

Szilard

Dora

Maxwell

Chaos

Crystal

Demon Race





Various Demon Races in the Anime



Demon Race
 (魔族,
Mazoku
) are the original inhabitants of the Demon World. The classification of Demon Race are less specific during recent times, and it became the umbrella term for the races sided with
Kishirika
 during the Great Human-Demon Wars. As a result, some races originally belonging to Beast Race are also categorized as Demon Race. There are a significant number of species, with very diverse range of physiology, abilities, and lifespan. Most Demon Race are bipedal humanoids that are radically different in appearance when compared to humans, but there are a few exceptions. Their primary language is Demon God Tongue.

There are some exceptionally powerful individuals among the Demon Race that become rulers of a certain region, which are known as Demon Kings (魔王,
Maou
). The one stood on top of all of them is the Demon Empress
Kishirika Kishirisu
.

Migurd

Roxy a female Migurd in the Anime
Migurds in Roxy's home village
1/2

Main article:
Migurd

Migurds
 are one of a Demon Races that resemble humans the most. Adult Migurds have the appearance of teenage humans with blue hair and eyes. They have a lifespan of around 200 years, and would retain their look as human teenagers until about 150 years old. Their special ability is to communicate with their kind via telepathy.

Superd

"If you see a someone that has emerald hair and a ruby-like stone on their forehead, don't approach them. If you have no choice but to talk to them, you must not anger them."

-Roxy warning Rudeus about the Superd Race

Ruijerd, a male Superd in the Anime
Superd Tribe during the Laplace War
1/2

Main article:
Superd Tribe

Superds
 are a tribal race of warriors from the
Demon Continent
. Adult Superds look very similar to humans, except for their pale skin, green hair, and red gem (third eye) on their forehead that allows them to detect living beings and the flow of mana.They are born with a forked tail, which hardens and falls off to become their trident spear as they grow up.

Due to the tales of their fearsome rampage without distinguishing ally from enemy during the Laplace War four hundred years ago, they are loathed and feared by all races. As a result, they are heavily discriminated, whereas green hair and spears are regarded as bad omen. They are currently almost extinct, with the only known surviving group living in a forest in the
Biheiril Kingdom
.

List of known Superds:

Ruijerd Superdia

Luwelia Superdia

Ruiweld Superdia

Rydelios Superdia

Luicelia Superdia
 (Human/Superd Hybrid)

Immortal Demon Race

Badigadi, a male Immortal Demon Race in the Anime
Kishirika, a female Immortal Demon Race in the Anime
Badigadi of the Immortal Demon Race in the Light Novel
1/3

The
Immortal Demon Race
 are descendants of the
First Demon God
. Males have jet black skin and six arms while females only have two arms. Their most prominent traits are their
Demon Eye
  and immortality that allows them to regenerate after their bodies are destroyed, but temporarily causing their bodies to shrink before the flesh is reassembled
 . They could even revive themselves after being completely obliterated, but this process would take thousands of years. Currently only the Dragon Race know the method to kill them permanently.

List of Immortal Demon Race:

Kishirika Kishirisu

Badigadi

Atoferatofe Rybak

Necross Lacross

Necrolia Nacrolia

Kirisis Calisis

Kalman II
 (Human/Immortal Demon Race Hybrid)

Kalman III
 (Human/Immortal Demon Race Hybrid)

Randolph Marianne
 (Human/Immortal Demon Race/Elf Hybrid)

Ogre





Malta, the Ogre God


Ogres
 (鬼族,
Onizoku
)are a group of Demon Race currently residing in the Ogre Island of the
Biheiril Kingdom
. They are very tall and muscular, with males reaching 3 meters tall. They have protruding lower jaws with canine teeth sticking out upwards, while having horns on their head. Their preferred drink, nicknamed ogre water, is in fact soy sauce.

About a hundred years ago, the ogres were under attack by sea folks and were driven into a desperate state. When they were losing hope, the prince of Biheiril Kingdom and a few adventurers came to the Ogre Island to conquer the tribe and claim the rumored treasure. After seeing the sorry state the ogres were in, the party changed their mind and pledged to help the ogres to defeat the sea folks. In the end, they successfully slain the chief of the sea folks, but the prince's party member were all dead.

To show their gratitude towards the distraught prince, the ogres established a relationship with people of the Biheril Kingdom. After a hundred years of integration, they are currently coexisting peacefully with their fellow humans, so much that the humans would actually put up in arms to fight those who insult the ogres.

The Ogre God
Malta
 is the only named ogre character so far.

Beast Race

Various Beast Race rescued by Rudeus and Ruijerd in the Anime
Various Beast Race working as servants in the Anime
1/2

Beast Race
 (兽族,
Juuzoku
) are the original inhabitants of the Beast World. After the death of the First Beast God
Pudoria Dordia
 at the hands of the First Dragon God and the ensuing destruction of the Beast World, the surviving Beast Race were gathered by the Human God to live in the Human World and they settled in the place now known as the
Great Forest
. Their primary language is Beast God Tongue.

The Beast Race are similar to the Human Race in appearance, with the difference of having traits of other mammals on their body. Their lifespan is also similar to humans, while their physical capabilities are slightly superior. They are capable of using a unique magic called
Howling
, which allows them to infuse their voice with magic to perform echolocation or incapacitate their enemies. They also possess an enhanced sense of smell that could identify the faint scent of different people, or even the smell of arousal
. However, their enhanced sense of smell is also their weakness, making them prone to being disabled by strong scents or smokes
.

The Beast Race enter their mating season during autumn, in which they become restless and aroused. During the season, they would duel against members of the opposite sex in their favor, and the winner would become the dominant one in their relationship and subsequent marriage
.

Doldia Tribe

Ghislaine, a female Doldia Tribe Beast Race in the Anime
1/1

5,500 years ago
, humans declared war on all other races after enslaving the demon race. In response towards the human invasion, Beast God
Giger
 rallied the Beast Race to defend the Great Forest. Fighting on the front lines with might and wit, Giger successfully defended the Great Forest and earned his fame as the hero of the Beast Race. In extension, the Doldia tribe descended from Giger became the royalty equivalent of the Great Forest and the guardian of the Sacred Beast
.

Currently there are two branches of Doldia tribe: the Dedoldia tribe with feline traits, and the Adoldia tribe with canine traits.

Notable Doldia Tribe Members:

Gustav Dedoldia

Gyes Dedoldia

Ghislaine Dedoldia

Linia Dedoldia

Minitona Dedoldia

Pursena Adoldia

Tersena Adoldia

Heaven Race






Sylvaril, a Heaven Race member



Heaven Race
 (天族,
Tenzoku
) are the original inhabitants of the Sky World. They have the appearance of humans with a pair of wings and are capable of flight, while having lifespan of at least a few hundred years. Most of them are currently residing on the
Divine Continent
, and their towns are protected by magical barriers. They used to be hostile towards the Demon Race during the
Second Great Human-Demon War
, but they're currently indifferent. Since they didn't participate in the Laplace War, they don't have the taboo against Superds and have no problem in using spears. Their primary language is Sky God Tongue
.

The only named Heaven Race character so far is
Sylvaril
.

Ocean Race

Ocean Race
 (海族,
Kaizoku
) are the original inhabitants of the Ocean World. They rule the ocean, making sea travel across
Ringus Sea
 impossible. Their primary language is Sea God Tongue.

References