Information

Story

Relationships

Appearance

Randolph Marianne
 is the current Death God after defeating the
previous Death God
.

Appearance

Has a Skull like face, in the sense that his face is so sickly that his skin warps tightly around his face. This appearance might be due to his mixed blood as he's not particularly sick.

Personality

Randolph used to be battle-thirsty but after countless battles, he's fed up. Now, he enjoys cooking (despite not being good at it) and walks around yawning without a care, even in time of turmoil. Generally a pacifist but Randolph does not mind killing anyone he's ordered to or in self-defense.

He is very loyal to
Pax Shirone
 and
Benedict Kingdragon
 because they were the only ones who enjoyed his cooking and understood him.

Background

After retiring he returned to his home country and started working as a chef and restaurant owner but soon the restaurant became bankrupt, leaving him with a huge debt. He then started working in Dragon King Kingdom as a Knight to pay off the debt.

Power and Abilities

Sword of Bewitching
 (
幻惑剣
,

Genwaku-ken
)
: It is a style of swordsmanship that tricks the opponent and creates opening in combat. It consists of two different sets of techniques known as the
Sword of Luring
 (
誘剣
,

Yū-ken
)
, a technique that entices an enemy into attacking when they should be defending, and the
Sword of Hesitation
 (
迷剣
,

Mei-ken
)
, a technique that entices an enemy into defending or retreating when they should be attacking.

North God Style
: Trained in the North God Style to at least Emperor rank. Was skilled enough to be a candidate for the North God rank.

Absolute Void Eyes
: This
Demon Eye
 let him create an impenetrable barrier around a location with minor loopholes.

Master of Stealth
: Randolph is capable of appearing behind a person without a sound or whatsoever with a saying "God of Death is always behind you".

Psychological warfare
: Randolph makes up for his lack of overwhelming power by making suggestions mid-battle, causing distress to his enemies and allowing him to turn the tables.

Equipment

Gauntlets created by and purchased from
Tallhand
, with the Mana Absorbing Stone planted inside. This allows Randolph to overwhelm magic users, though has limited use, as the Mana Absorbing Stones consume as much Mana as they cancel out, making them less effective against a magician with large amount of mana like Rudeus.

Achievements

Defeated his predecessor, the Death God
Laxus
.

Ranked #5 of the
Seven Great Powers
.

Overwhelmed
Rudeus Greyrat
,
Roxy Migurdia
 and
Zanoba Shirone
.

Quotes

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Trivia

Dead End
 were the last clients of his restaurant.

Badigadi
 told him about
Hitogami
, not to trust nor make enemy out of him, a long time ago.

In light of things,
Hitogami
 might have instructed
Gisu
 to sell Randolph the magic gauntlet in hope the Death God would take down
Rudeus
.

Despite being part immortal, Randolph has not shown to have omnipotent regeneration nor tremendous magical energy like his elders, probably due to him only having 1/8th of Atofe’s blood.

In the side story "Jobless Oblige", Sieghart succeeded Randolph as the next Death God, implying that he either defeated Randolph or accepted his offer to succeed his position somehow.

His grandmother was also called Death God Knight and her connection to
Laxus
 is unknown.