This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

This article is about the Magic School in Sharia. For the Season 2 Episode 5 Anime , see
Ranoa University of Magic (Episode)
.

Ranoa Magic Academy in the Anime
Ranoa Magic Academy in the Manga
1/2

The
Ranoa Magic Academy
, also known as the
Ranoa University of Magic
 or simply
Magic University
, is the world's largest
magic
 school. It is sponsored by the Magic Guilds of the Magic Triumvirate and boasts one of the largest campus areas with over 10,000 enrolled students. The school is located in the Magic City of
Sharia
, Kingdom of Ranoa,
Central Continent
. People from all tribes, species, and social standings can be admitted.

Overview

The building of the Ranoa Magic Academy is made from magic-proof bricks which the Magic Guild has the monopoly on manufacturing and sales, but they're not strong enough to stand against
Rudeus
' magic. There are multiple magic circles around the school that have
healing
 power close to that of a Saint-level Healer, especially in the practice building's training hall.

The entrance fee and expenses until the graduation are about 3
Asura Gold Coins
.

Background





Ranoa Magic Academy Emblem in the Light Novel



Before the Ranoa Magic Academy was built, only the Magician Guild is present in the area, where it stood as a fortress protected by the Ranoa Kingdom. An alliance called the Magic Triumvirate or the Three Magic Nations is eventually established between the neighboring nations of Ranoa, Basherant and Neris. The Triumvirate poured tremendous amount of resources into magical research. The newly built Ranoa Magic Academy, the Magician Guild and Neris Magical Implement Workshop were established together in the Magic City of Sharia and became the center of the Magic Nations despite the overlapping borders. The Ranoa Magic Academy is located in the Student District at the eastern part of the city, whereas
Frau Claudia
, the 56th Generational Leader of the Magician Guild, became the first principal
.

Uniform

Rudeus wearing the male school uniform in the Anime
Ariel wearing the female school uniform in the Anime
Rudeus wearing the Ranoa Magic Academy Uniform in the Anime
Ranoa Magic Academy Uniforms in the Light Novel
1/4

Gentlemen are provided with a School Suit, Ladies are provided with a Blazer. They were designed and implemented by
Nanahoshi
 aka "Silent". They look like Japanese student uniforms.

The Gym uniform is a robe and the academy doesn't provide them nor do they specify any restriction or preferences on what to wear. So students can buy whatever they want and for the case of Rudeus, he uses the robe he had been using from the
Demon Continent
.

Academy Curriculum

The curriculum lasts 7 years, though it is possible to extend the duration of the study if it involves magical research backed by the Magic Guild. Normal student's curriculum consists of general studies for 3 years (typically Beginner-class in all four attack magic), after which they can choose to further develop a certain branch up to Advanced-class. Magic curriculum generally goes up to Advanced-class with the exception of Divine Strike (up to Beginner-class) and Barrier (up to Beginner-class) magic which are restricted by the
Milis Religion
.

Unlike other Magical Schools, the lessons in the school are not just limited to magic. There are also swordsmanship and horse-handling classes.

Books used though out the curriculum:

Fire Magic Theory and Practice

Water Magic Fundamentals

Earth Magic: Advanced Techniques

Wind Magic: Control and Mastery

Healing Magic: Principles and Applications

Teleportation: Theory and Fundamentals

The Teleportation Incident: Analysis and Impact

Summoning Magic: Techniques and Applications

Magical Theory: Foundations and Innovations

Illusion Magic: Principles and Techniques

Mana Management: Efficiency and Optimization

Magic Items: Crafting and Uses

Magic Circles: Theory and Design

Steps to Learning Summoning Magic: Analysis and Procedures

Special Student

The Special Student's Classroom in the Anime
The Tower where the Special Student's Classroom is located
Rudeus ascending the spiral stairway to the Special Student's classroom
1/3

Special students are those given special privilege from the school in exchange for the school to advertise how good they are after special students have been graduated. As such, the School also would send letters of invitation to renowned individuals to study in the Academy free admission to further boost their reputation.

The Special Student classroom is located at the third floor, rear room of the school building in the Light Novel
 while in the
Anime
, the classroom is located at the top floor of a tower with a spiral stairway to reach it and the interior is filled with various portraits.

Below is the list of privileges given to special students:

They are exempted from basic school expenses.

If they stay in the dormitory, they will be granted exclusive rooms for themselves, although they can share with other students if they want to.

The are exempted from classes under certain circumstances.

They can receive or join in any class curriculum aimed at the general students. The school encourages special students to mix in with other students if they attend.

Homeroom attendance is mandatory once a month.

They are free to do basically anything in the school (e.g. spend all day reading books in the library).

They may borrow one room in the research building for devoted research.

They may borrow one room in the training building for training time.

They are free to eat meals in the dining room.

They are exempted from duty of refilling water basins in toilets.

If they are active adventurers, they are free to continue being adventurers when they leave the campus.

They are free to publish their research findings if they visit the magic guild.

Anything done outside the campus is their own responsibilities (e.g. visiting the red-light district).

Since there are several types of special students, the aforementioned privilege may be varied.

Upon graduation, they would receive unconditional admittance to C-class membership from the Magic Guild if they produce their own theses, otherwise D-class membership is granted.

Classes

Special Class

TBA

1st Year:
Rayfort Magnafold
,
Mi'Nal
, Grannel Zafin Asura

Staff

Principal -
Georg

Vice Principal -
Jinas Halfas

Teacher -
Roxy Greyrat

Teacher -
Badigadi
 (Former)

Areas

Dormitory

Ranoa Magic Academy Dormitories in the Anime
A Dormitory Room in the Anime
Ranoa Magic Academy Dormitories in the Manga
1/3

The Academy has several huge dormitory that is five stories tall with red roof, many windows with attached veranda and boarding is free. The dorm room is a 6-tatami length room, fitted with bunk beds with study chairs and tables, usually for 2 people but exception can be made for a Special Student. Students can also pay a bit more to move to a larger higher security room especially when it comes to aristocracies that fled their country. Boys and Girls' dormitory are separated and in the evening, boys are forbidden near the girl's dormitory.

The girl's dormitory is also the most secure location in the Student District. It is guarded by the
Rude Mercenary Company
 and the
Beast Race
 girls who have sensitive noses and the
Demon Race
 girls who have other ways to identify people like
Demon Eyes
. However,
Sieghart Saladin Greyrat
 who is trained in the
North God Style
 knows of a way to deceive their noses and knows how to deal with the demons by knowing their racial characteristics.

Reception Room





Ranoa Academy Reception Room in the Anime



The Reception is where the academy receives guests such as potential students of the academy that have a hard sofa and minimal furnishing.

School Yard






Ranoa Academy School Yard in the Anime



The School Yard is where students assemble for welcoming of new students or when announcements are made by the Principal or Student Council members at one side of the yard while students are seated around the room with tables and chairs like a banquet hall.

Training Hall






Magic Training Rooms in the Anime



The Training Hall contains several rooms with verandas for spectators while the center of the room has Saint Rank Healing
Magic Circles
 that automatically heals injuries instantly on anyone inside the circle so students can experiment and test magic or even do actual combat which is part of the fourth year curriculum. The outer area of the Magic Circles also has an Advanced Rank Barrier Magic that prevents magic from passing to prevent spectators from being harmed or incase of accidents.

Library

Rudeus and Norn studying at the Library
Ranoa Magic Academy Library in the Anime
1/2

The Library is in its own independent two-storey building that has a guard to ensure that students can enter. Magic is also forbidden in the library and due to previous students swapping out books to be sold, removing a book from the library is strictly forbidden unless given permission.

Infirmary

Rudeus, Zanoba and Julie watching over Nanahoshi in the Infirmary
Infirmary in the Anime
1/2

The infirmary is a spacious room that has a plaque by the entrance which says "Medical Room" and has 8 beds with 2 healers stationed to treat patients usually due to magic accidents that are brought in via stretchers.

Research Room

Nanahoshi's Research Room in the Anime
Zanoba's Research Room in the Anime
Cliff's Research Room in the Anime
1/3

Research Room are places where various research and experiments of Magic, that is mainly used by the Special Students where they are free to modify it as they please to meet the needs of their research. This also includes using it as their sleeping quarters.

Student Council Room

Student Council Room in another POV in the Anime
Student Council Room in the Anime
1/2

The Student Council Room is there the Student Council conducts their daily activities including summoning students for questioning and the like.

Rumors

Due to Rudeus being recognized as the strongest student in the academy, several rumors has began circulating about him, his friends, eventual family and even his
home
.

9 Rumors of the School:

"The
Banchou
's arm flies."

"The Banchou's eyes shine."

"At the Banchou's single shout, a group of 30 people will assemble."

"A monster lives at the Banchou's house."

"The Banchou loves small children."

"The Bancho is a monster."

"The Bancho is great."

"The Bancho is rich."

"The Bancho is bald."

References

Navigation

Ranoa Magic Academy

Principal

Georg

Vice Principal

Jinas Halfas

Teachers

Roxy Migurdia
 •
Badigadi

Student Council

Ariel Anemoi Asura
 •
Norn Greyrat
 •
Luke Notos Greyrat
 •
Fitz

Special Student

Rudeus Greyrat
 •
Rinia Dedorudia
 •
Pursena Adorudia
 •
Zanoba Shirone
 •
Cliff Grimoire
 •
Silent Seven Star