This article is about the City in Begaritt Continent. For the Chapter 100 Manga, see
Labyrinth City Rapan
.

This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

"This city, wrapped in a whirlwind of chaos, is currently one of the largest and most prominent of the Begaritt Continent"

-Adventurer and Wandering the World Author
Bloody Kant





The Labyrinth City of Rapan in the Anime
Opening Theme 8



The Labyrinth City of Rapan
, also known as
Lapan
 is a city known for its numerous Labyrinth located at
Begaritt Continent
.

Geography

Rudeus and Elinalise arriving at Rapan in the Anime
The Labyrinth City of Rapan in the Manga
1/2

Rapan is a large earth-colored city sat in the midst of a vast desert, trapped in an enormous white cage that are actually made from bones of a
Behemoth
 where 12 of these bone pillars are enough to encase the entire city and has several oasis that makes the city unexpectedly verdant with life.

Background

When
Kalman II
 and his companions visited Begaritt, they battled a behemoth that was rampaging through the desert. After defeating it, they feasted on some of its meat and left the remains to rot and eventually become the bone pillars where Rapan is built that refuse to decay and a standing testament to the passage of time.

Ants and other
Monsters
 also feasted on the remains of the behemoth's flesh where if monsters devour other stronger monsters, they give birth to more powerful monsters. These mutant ants dug countless nests and the nests all mutated into labyrinths and the
Teleportation Labyrinth
 is among them.

As such, labyrinths make Rapan an alluring destination for countless
Adventurers
 from all over the
Human World
, looking to get rich quick that makes the city a stage where both happy endings and tragedies are acted out since then.

Economy

Various Rapan wares in the Anime
Various stalls in the sidewalks of Rapan
A merchant in typical bearded look and outfit of turban, flowing clothes
1/3

Rapan's economy is heavily dependent on Adventurers and the Merchants that buy or sell mainly
Magic Tools and Magic Items
 that are acquired from the labyrinths where they churn out in droves. Due to adventurers coming from all walks of
Races
 of the
Human World
, there is no standard currency used in Rapan and trading Magic Crystals is the most prominent means of trade where as long as your Magic Crystal stock is of certain quality, it is almost guaranteed it will sell at a high price that makes Rapan a land where merchants' dream come true.

Due to Rapan's remote location, the required knowledge of how to traverse and survive the desert and at least 6 months of travelling time come and go here, only a select few merchants make a habit of selling their merchandise to the
Central Continent
 for a more profitable and safer trade.

--To be added

Areas

Points of Interest

Adventure Guild





Rudeus and Elinalise in front of Rapan Adventure Guild



The Adventure Guild of Rapan is located at the center of Rapan and is carved inside a huge boulder most likely with
Earth Magic
 but the complexity of its construction surpasses
Rudeus Greyrat
's abilities.

Military

Diplomacy

References