Information

Summary

Part 1

Wedding of Norn

Part 2

Lucy and Papa

Part 3

Story of The Seven Knights of Asura

Part 4

Let's Make an Automaton!

Part 5

Diary of Vacation in Millis

Part 6

The God That Dwells in the Holy Land of Sword

The Moment Aisha Greyrat Stopped Being a Maid

Aisha Greyrat
 is with
Ars
 in her room, reads a fairytale under the name "The Great Hero of Humanity Ars", the latter named after the main character. After that, she felt a strange kind of feeling when around him as he grew up, tracing his similarities of her half-brother
Rudeus
. Ars confessed to her and ended up having sex, only they were caught in sight by Rudeus. In shock, Rudeus rushed them to the bathroom and organize a family meeting, leaving the rest of the family, including
Lilia
, disgusted. When Ars declared he wanted to be with Aisha,
Eris
 got angry and beat him, but Aisha defended him in tears. As Rudeus and Lilia also got very angry, she suggested to Ars the idea of eloping. He agreed and they ran away from home.

Distressed after the elopement, Rudeus gathered his friends and family to search them everywhere of
Millis country
, but nowhere to be found. After months of searching desperately, Rudeus and his wives joined together in a quiet country outside Millis, where Aisha and Ars found in a handmade cottage. Eris encourages Ars to a sword fight, brutally chopped off his right hand by her sword as a result, but he swore to defend Aisha from his mother as his own will, while Rudeus founded Aisha, had got heavily pregnant, in her room. Rudeus, in distraught, wanted to end his half-sister with her unborn child mercifully, but only seeing Ars's resolve to protect Aisha and their genuine love despite being a relationship between family members is largely forbidden, he finally confessed at Aisha about his previous past. At the time of the confession between the siblings, Rudeus accepted Aisha and Ars' relationship. They were brought back home, and Lilia, however, attemptedly put an end of her pregnant daughter with a knife in front of them, but Rudeus calmed her down.

As a punishment, they removed Aisha's last name and Ars would step off separately from her to study while she is ready to leave her home to study in the Asura Royal Academy to learn more about the world and herself. At the time she gave birth to Ars' child, Leroy, would stay in the Greyrat Household; Aisha bids her goodbye to Ars and Leroy.

Four years later, Aisha is now married with Ars, bought a house from City of Magic Sharia and lives peacefully with the child.

Part 7

Nanahoshi Gourmet

Part 8

The Last One to Leave the Nest

Trivia

Leroy Greyrat
 is a first child and son of Ars and Aisha Greyrat. Born in the Millis country as an illegitimate offspring of the half-relatives, he has his father's sexual perversion and his mother's intelligence.

Leroy's character was later deleted in the web novel, but possibly reappear in the forthcoming light novel.