This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

Information

Story

Relationships

And yet, none of them had even tried to succeed Reida as the Water God. Calling themselves unworthy of the title, they'd left it in Reida's hands and content themselves with the rank of Water Emperor.

Reida Reia
 (
レイダ
・
リィア
)
, also known as
Reida Lia
 in the English Light Novel is the grandmother and master of
Isolde Cluel
 and
Water God
, one of the "strongest swordsman of the generation."

Appearance

Reida is an old woman with white hair and blue eyes who looked to be in her early sixties. Her looks are also stated to resemble Isolde's. She usually had a grumpy expression on her face and was normally the picture of a gentle, harmless old lady when casual. She also wore her sword at her hip.

In her early 50s, Reida had black neck-length hair that frames her with a single ahoge. She wore a uniform that gave a window view of her huge cleavage.

Personality

In her later years, Reida is a kind old woman with a fond disposition for children she knows, such as Nina. Even so, she can be sharp and scornful of others, such as when she rebuked Auber for failing in his duty and leaving her to clean up his mess. She seems to enjoy looking back to the past, with an air of nostalgia around her words and eyes whenever she spoke about the past. She also held a degree of pride in her title and used it to affirm the importance of her own position.

Reida was an attentive person who paid attention to her granddaughter Isolde's growth, whose confidence had grown excessive at one point, and decided that she stay in the Sword Sanctum to train further.

She stood calm and firm in her final moments against Orsted, sighing at the fact that she would have to fight such a powerful opponent before her death.

Background

Reida's real name is not revealed since it is the tradition of the
Water God Style
 since its establishment that those who become the Water God will change their name to Reida Reia for females.

In her early age, she had beaten up a noble, and in retribution she was knocked down by a crowd of nobles and about to get both hands cut off.
Darius Silva Ganius
 intervened and saved her. When she became Water King and got picked to be the royal sword instructor, she went to look for Darius to express her gratitude but by that point, he had already turned into a horrible human being. Later on, she had at least one son, whose children would later on become Water God style swordsmen themselves.

Reida also met
Paul Greyrat
 during her visit with her acquaintance
Augusta
's dojo and acknowledges Paul's talent in the sword but that he lacks desire in strength.

Legacy

In her final talk, Reida implied that Isolde will be her successor.

After Reida's death, Orsted immediately left the venue without naming himself and Isolde did not pursue him.

The nobles on the venue believes that Orsted is a subordinate of
Perugius Dola
 because of their similar hair color and eyes and gains faith on
Ariel Anemoi Asura
 becoming queen, who has the backing of the Armored Dragon King with a subordinate who can defeat the Water God with one blow.

Despite Reida claiming to be the sole perpetrator on the assassination attempt on Ariel, many nobles sympathized with her and Ariel did not want the Water God Style to become her enemy.

Power and Abilities

Reida Lia is a powerful swordsman who, by the time of current events, is an old woman past her peak physical years. Nevertheless, she still ranked as one of the strongest swordsman of the current generation. She had been a true prodigy in her youth, and her natural gifts were comparable to those of any Water God who'd gone before her.
 Even at an old age, a swordsman of particular skill could have seen that her relaxed bearing was only a facade and realize that their fastest attacks would fail to touch her.

She was shrewd enough to deduce that Gal Fallion wanted her to train Eris Greyrat in order to defeat another immensely powerful Water God style user, Orsted (though she initially assumed it was herself). She also immediately knew the three-way deadlock between Isolde, Nina, and Eris before they properly fought one another.

She is powerful enough that even in a direct confrontation between her and Armored (Mk. I) Rudeus, she would still have the advantage.
 She can also counter all of Armored Rudeus' magic from a distance; it would be impossible for even a powerful mage like him to kill her from a distance due to her
Battle Aura
.

『Water God Style』






Deprivation Sword Kingdom depicted in the Light Novel


As a former Water god, she was able to learn three of the five secret arts of the Water God Style, which is the bare minimum to be worthy of the title of Water God. She mastered the two
most difficult
 of the five secret arts, which led to the creation of a sixth technique that made others worthy of the title, content themselves with rank of Water Emperor, and left the title in Reida's hands for as long as she lived.

Blade of Deprivation/Deprivation Field
 - A Water God Style new/sixth technique, Reida combined the two most difficult secret arts of the Water God Style and managed to create this phantom art. The technique allows Reida to cut from any direction, be it up, down, left, right around her and even the slightest movement is instantly countered with a fatal blow. The move has quite a large range being able to hit anything within a room hosting a party for a large gathering of the most prominent Asura nobles. This secret art is so deadly that Orsted's only advice against it was "
to not let it happen
."

Equipment

Golden Short Sword

Reia's Sword in the Game
Reia's Sword in the Game
1/2

Quotes

Reida:
"Goodness... Orsted? The Dragon God? That's quite a grandiose attitude you're taking. Do you think she can do it?"

Gal:
"I think she can.
Eris
 does too."

Reida:
"I see That's fine then. Self-confidence is more important than anything."

Reida:
"Long time no see. Did you come to take this old lady to the afterlife?"

Orsted:
"Yes. You’re a disciple of the Man-God."

Reida:
“Disciple, huh… so you let me go the previous time because I wasn’t one then? My my, I'm gonna have to fight such an incredible opponent in my final moments..."

Trivia

She encountered Orsted once before the meeting that led to her death, but was allowed to live because was not a disciple of the
Man-God
 at that time.

Orsted has fought her multiple times in his previous loops, and thus is completely aware of her fighting style.

The name Reida is the feminine version of Reidar, a legendary swordsman of the Water God Style, and each new head of this style will inherit this name. It is tradition for Water Gods to change their name to Reida Lia for female or Reida Liadar for males.

Fujii Yukiyo is her voice actor for her younger version in the Mushoku Tensei Mobile game.

Reference