This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

Information

Story

Relationships

Volume 13

Reida arrives to the Sword Sanctum with her pupil and granddaughter, Isolde Cluel, at the Sword God
Gal Fallion
's request letter to teach one of his students. Reida would normally tear such a letter but it piqued her interest since it was from Gal, who hates relying on others. She brings Isolde along because of how her student has grown conceited and is saddened that her skills have not grown at all. She is hoping that Isolde will be motivated to improve herself after fighting the Sword God's disciples.

Upon seeing
Nina Fallion
, she is nostalgically reminded of the past when Nina was a kid, but Nina doesn't remember her. However, Nina realizes immediately from presence alone that Reida is an extremely powerful swordsman. Reida tries to recruit Nina to Water God Style because of her humble and cool composure, to no avail.

Reida anticipated the deadlock formed between Sword Saint
Eris Greyrat
, Isolde, and Nina. She orders Isolde to stay at the Sword Sanctum to train with them for some time.

Volume 17





Reida using Blade of Deprivation as Orsted closes in on her.



Ariel Anemoi Asura
 reveals to the nobles of the
Asura Kingdom
 that she has the support of the Armored Dragon King
Perugius Dola
. After Ariel reveals Darius' crimes and is about to be arrested, Reida comes crashing down from the ceiling and unleashes her signature move, Blade of Deprivation. She instantaneously cuts in half two of Perugius' servants,
Almanfi
 and
Trophymus
, as they react to attack her, and nearly cuts
Rudeus Greyrat
's hand off for simply channeling mana into his ring to contact
Orsted
 (his magically-enhanced gauntlet broke while protecting him). Due to the auto-counter nature of her technique, this causes everyone near her to be incapable of moving a muscle (including Rudeus, Eris,
Ghyslaine
, Perugius, and his servants) and thus forcing them to a standstill.

After harshly berating North Emperor
Auber Corvette
 for his own failure to complete his mission, she orders him to kill Ariel, Perugius, and Rudeus while maintaining her technique. As everyone remains still, she creates a fake explanation for her actions: she was operating under pay from the King Dragon Realm and ordered to assassinate Asuran nobles. A horrified Isolde arrives to the scene, but Reida stops her in her tracks as well, adding in that a "novice knight" is to cut her down after the assassination job is finished. After sensing that Orsted is coming, she orders Auber to take Darius and escape but Ariel questions why. She then goes into monologue about how the
Man-God
 came to her in a dream and convinced her to repay her debt to Darius from long ago.

When Orsted arrives, Reida asks Orsted if he has come to kill her, and he replies in the affirmative. Orsted starts to move into her effective range, and she starts to counterattack. Her slashes grow much more powerful and faster but Orsted blocks all of her attacks using his bare hands and kills her with one blow to the heart.

Despite Reida claiming to be the sole perpetrator on the assassination attempt on Ariel, many nobles sympathized with her and Ariel did not want the Water God Style to become her enemy. Thus, the Water God Style training halls remained and Isolde's name was cleared too.