This article
lacks information
 and requires expansion. Please
expand this page
 to include missing information to help improve the article.





City of Rikarisu



The
City of Rikarisu
 (リカリスの町 -
Rikarisu no Machi
) is one of the three largest settlements on the
Demon Continent
, located in the Biegoya Region. Rikarisu sits in the middle of an enormous crater, the rim of which forms a single continuous wall around the city currently serves to protect the city against marauding
monsters
.

At the time of the
Great Human-Demon War
, it served as a home base for the forces of the Demon Empress
Kishirika Kishirisu
. Even now, it is sometimes referred to as Old Kishirisu Castle.

Description

There are only three entrances to the city, all of which are cracks in the rim of the crater. The walls of the crater are tall enough that one would not be able to make their way over them unless they could fly. Near the entrance to the town were the merchant related inns, related stables, and stores which are all connected.

The buildings are not as tall as the ones built in human settlements in the
Central Continent
 but there are just as many of them. The buildings are not built with architectural taste but rather as passable facility for living in, as a result a majority of the houses look homespun and similar. Most of the facilities near the entrance were stables and inns that clearly catered to traveling merchants and adventurers similar to the
Citadel of Roa
.

At the very heart of the city stand the ruins of Castle Kishirisu, half-destroyed during the events of
Laplace War
. Imposingly thick outer walls surround the broken black-and-gold castle itself, a sight that offer visitors a constant reminder of the Empress's faded glory and demonkind's violent, painful past.

Chronology

Story events regarding the City of Rikarisu.

Entry-Level Adventurers arc

Rudeus, Eris and Rujierd arrive at the city, and after declaring themselves as the adventurers party
Dead End
 they start to fulfill diferent request around the city. They are joined by a group of B class adventures who were previously pet thieves called
P Hunter
, where they would swap request, until Nekopara found out about the deal, too avoid being blackmailed by him Rujierd reveals his real identity as a Superdia forcing Rudeus and company to escape the city

Summoning arc

Rudeus, Elinalise, Cliff and Zanoba travel to the city in search of Kirishika. The city is now filled with guards from
Atoferatofe
 who now resides on the kirishu castle all of them with the objective of also finding Kirishika, upon finding Kirishika they are taken by the guards to Kirishu castle where they meet Atofe and
Moore
.  Atofe tries to reclute Rudeus and Zanova to her army upon rejecting her they are forcerd to run from her guards and escape the city yet again.

Organization arc

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Known Inhabitants

Nokopara

Jalil

Vizquel

Gallery

One of the three gates
The high crater wall
The streets
Kishirisu Castle
1/4

References