Information

Chronology

Powers and Abilities

Relationships

Gallery

Magic Abilities

Chanting Omission

Roxy is able to cast Magic by shortening the incantation for magic.

『Attack Magic』

Roxy casting Flamethrower
Roxy casting Flood Flush
Roxy casting Flame Slice
Roxy casting Blizzard Storm
Roxy casting Icicle Field
Roxy using Water Splash
Roxy casting Earth Fortress to impede monsters
Roxy casting Icicle Break
Roxy casting Burning Place
Roxy casting Earth Fortress
Roxy casting Cumulonimbus (Saint Rank)
Roxy casting Water Ball
1/12

『Fire Magic』

Saint Rank

『Water Magic』

King Rank

『Earth Magic』

Advanced Rank

『Wind Magic』

Advanced Rank

『Healing Magic』

Roxy using Healing on Talhand
Roxy using Healing Magic (Beginner)
1/2

『Healing』

Advanced Rank

『Detoxification Magic』

Intermediate Rank

Equipment

Roxy’s Staff Information:
 It’s a unique and strong staff Roxy obtained thanks to her friends in the Ranoa Magic Academy.

The material of the wand is made from a rough and bony wood that comes from a tree called 『Elder Torrent』that grows in the large forest of the Eastern region of the Mills Continent.

Elder Treants are an advanced subspecies of the Lesser Treant, born from the nourishment of the fairy spring. They are capable of using water magic. Their arms could be used as material for high quality magical staves.

The tip of the staff is adorned with a magic stone in the shape of a small crystal that comes from a nameless slime monster in a labyrinth near the border of Ranoa.

Roxy’s staff increased her water magic almost twofold. While other magic element spells were marginally increased.

The opposed elements like fire are halved. Her staff was so incredible that her friends wrote research papers about the staff’s capabilities.

Roxy’s Staff Background:
 After entering the Ranoa University of Magic, Roxy realizes the limits of her mana capacity when attempted to cast Saint Rank Water Magic Spell Cumulonimbus and failed. Because she doesn’t have large enough mana pool.

So she commissions her classmate Louis who specializes in staff manufacturing to craft her a new staff. But the materials for the staff cost twenty gold coins and the magic stone itself cost fifty gold coins.

So she decided get magic stones by killing monsters in a labyrinth near the border of Ranoa. By applying for adventure quests.

She try get in a temporary adventurer party, but it is a double booking and they refused her for the voluptuous woman magician instead. Afterwards her Dedoldia tribe roommate Lene forced her to partner up in an underground fighting arena.

Roxy didn’t want to participate until Lene allowed her take all the prize money.

After they won the match, Roxy asked Lene’s help with killing monsters in a labyrinth and agreed to offer her strength so she can obtain a magic stone. Eventually after working together to kill a small slime monster inside the labyrinth.

Roxy was able to get the main magic stone that’s near its core. When she finally obtained the magic stone, Louis created Roxy’s new staff.