Departure
 (
旅立ち
,

Tabidachi
)
 is the first chapter of the
Mushoku Tensei
 Roxy spin-off
manga adaptation
.

Cover Characters

Roxy Migurdia

Summary

Roxy Migurdia, now as Roxy M. Greyrat, who is now teaching in the Ranoa University of Magic, Roxy sees a book and remembers her story when he was young.

Roxy is a member of the Migurd race located in the Demon continent, and born without the special skill of the telepathy of their tribe. Her fathers, Rokari and Rowin learned the Demon tongue to teach her and they tried to prevent that Roxy discovered the lack of her skill, but one day, she left the house and found other children for the first time, but they dont speak and left her alone while they play, she returned to her house crying.

Some years later, Roxy in the roof of the house was thinking how suffocating was the mood of the village because she lacks Telepathy. Suddenly she finds that outside of the village was a traveler lying on the ground, when Roxy approaches the body, the person grabs her hand saying that was hungry. Inside Roxy house the traveler presents herself as Bloody Kant, and she is exploring the world to write a book about all the things that she discovers in the world. In the night, Roxy asks Bloody Kant about the worlds and she was fascinated about those places where they communicate with words, and asks if she is a good swordsman to travel in all those places, and she says that she is a magician and decides to show her skills.

In the next day Bloody Kant show her a the magic “Water ball”, and Roxy was fascinated, and ask her to teach her magic and Bloody Kant accept, for some days she teaches to Roxy the basic of magic until she was able to properly cast the magic Water ball, after that she gives to Roxy a wand, in the night, happy she wanted to ask something to her teacher in the next day. When she awakens, she finds that Bloody Kant already left the village leaving  behind a letter and an intermediate magic book to her, this makes Roxy sad because she wanted to travel with her. One year later, Roxy decides to leave her village.

Appearances

Characters

Roxy Migurdia

Rudeus Greyrat

Rowin Migurdia

Rokari Migurdia

Bloody Kant

Skills

Water ball

Regions

Demon Continent

Biegoya Region

Migurd Village

Trivia

The first magic that Bloody Kant showed to Roxy was Waterball, the same magic that Roxy showed to Rudeus in their first meeting.

In the Seven seas version in the first page, they change the name of Roxy M. Greyrat to only Roxy Migurdia.