Information

Chronology

Powers and Abilities

Relationships

Gallery

Story

Volume 1 - Infancy Period

She taught
Rudeus
 magic and was astonished by his talent. She was known to be a very good teacher by Rudeus as she would constantly clarify his thoughts as long as they were relevant.

During her stay at the Village of Buina, she would often take it upon herself to help the villagers to forge better relationships with them. Although they were wary of her at first, they slowly accepted her.

She gave Rudeus his first magic weapon: A staff. A few days later, when he learned Water Saint Rank Magic after the first attempt, she left to train herself.

Volume 2 - Juvenile Period - Home Teacher Chapter

While not appearing in this volume personally, she however sent Rudeus a letter saying that she became a court magician of Shirone Kingdom and also a teacher of
Pax
, a Prince of Shirone. She also sent a book that taught him about the Demon God language, which she wrote herself, accompanied with some clumsy drawings. Rudeus was amazed with the detailed explanations stated in the book.

Volume 3 - Juvenile Period - Adventurer Chapter

Her birth place and identity of her parents is revealed. She was apparently known as a 'late-bloomer' and incapable of telepathy like most
Miguardias
 are able to. That had led her to leaving her hometown at a young age as she felt alienated, later becoming an adventurer. Her parents were relieved to hear that she was doing well.

Volume 4 - Juvenile Period - Voyage Chapter

Roxy,
Elinalise
, and
Tallhand
 reach Wind Port in search for
Paul's family
 but they heard about <<
Dead End
>> being in the same town, she manages to find
Ruijerd
 and
Eris
. But Roxy became scared when Ruijerd noticed her, and she then ran away back to the inn, not meeting Rudeus.

Volume 5 - Juvenile Period - Reunion Chapter

She returned to her hometown and reunited with her parents. Also, she learned the identity of
The Owner of Dead End
.

Volume 6 - Juvenile Period - Homecoming Chapter

She learned
Zenith
's location from
Kishirika
 and decided to reunite with
Paul
 to decide the course of action.

Volume 12 - Youth Period - Labyrinth Chapter

Roxy got trapped in a labyrinth for a month and instantly fell in love with Rudeus after he gallantly saved her life, despite him puking afterwards thinking that she had forgotten him. They then went to clear the Dungeon once more and save Zenith from the serpent that guards the labyrinth, freeing her from her crystal tomb.

Due to Rudeus suffering from the grief of losing his father, she "saved" him by having sex with him as it was known to be the best cure for it. At the end of the chapter, it was declared that she was to be his wife as he had to take responsibility for it.

Volume 13 - Young Man Period - Everyday Chapter

Roxy becomes a new Teacher at
Ranoa Magic Academy
. Roxy teaches Rudeus how to use Water King Class Magic. Rudeus has a threesome with Roxy and Sylphy.

Volume 14 - Young Man Period - Summoning Chapter

As Perugius doesn't allow demons to enter his castle Roxy is forced to stay behind while the rest of the group enters, after Rudeus returns and meets his future self, he tells him that roxy would have been destined to die by an infected rat, not only that but future Rudeus confirms that Roxy is pregnant with their first child, upon learning this Rudeus freezes the rat saving Roxy life.

Volume 22 - Young Man Period - Organization Chapter

Roxy tells Rudeus that she could be of assistance to help improve the Magic Armor, and he entrusts the task to her. It was revealed that she had also been studying magic circles for his sake.

Two months after
Atofe
's defeat, Roxy goes with Rudeus and
Lara
 to her hometown to visit her parents. Although at first Roxy wanted to make the decision to leave Lara at the Miguardia Village to hone her skills as an esper, she changes her mind after Rudeus decided against it and Lara did not want to leave her, even speaking up about her thoughts.