Information

Chronology

Powers and Abilities

Relationships

Gallery

This article
lacks information
 and requires expansion. Please
expand this page
 to include missing information to help improve the article.

SPOILER ALERT!

This page contains
spoilers!
  Read at your own risk.

Family

Rudeus Greyrat

Roxy and Rudeus sharing their first kiss in the Anime
Roxy comforting Rudeus after Paul's death
Roxy and Rudeus in the Teleportation Labyrinth
Roxy and Rudeus studying the book for the Teleportation Labyrinth
Rudeus embracing Roxy after saving her
Roxy giving Rudeus a Magic Wand
Roxy training Rudeus in Magic
1/7

Rudeus Greyrat is Roxy's disciple and later her husband. Roxy first met Rudeus in
Buena Village
 to become his home tutor. On Rudeus' 5th birthday, she gave him a magic wand. She was also able to help Rudeus overcome his fear of going outside, which led Rudeus to respect Roxy and treasure her "holy relic" (panties). The anime goes a step further, where she mentions how Rudy spied on her bathing. Roxy didn't admonish him for it, suggesting she was flattered he found her attractive.

After the
Teleport Incident
, they almost cross paths, but they wouldn't see each other. Years later they finally reunite when Rudeus decides to go the
Teleportation Labyrinth
 where he saves Roxy which made her fall in love with him that is seen afterwards where Roxy would make various attempts to be close to him or would always look at Rudeus. After the battle against the
Manatite Hydra
 that resulted in his Paul's death while saving Rudeus, he falls into depression but Roxy consoles him by sleeping with him. After that, they would eventually marry and Roxy would become his second wife. She later gives birth to Lara Greyrat and Lily Greyrat.

In an alternate timeline, Roxy dies due to
Magic Stone Disease
 under the manipulation of
Hitogami
, which causes the
Rudeus
 of that timeline to fall into depression and bent on revenge which also causes the death of the rest of his family. Realizing that he cannot reach Hitogami in his lifetime, Rudeus travels back in time to warn his younger self on what will happen and gives his diary to him before passing away.

Lara Greyrat





Roxy and Lara in the Light Novel



Lara is the first daughter between Rudeus and Roxy. Lara's mischievous personality tends to worry Roxy and will always tell her to apologize or reminds her of manners. This worry remained for years and before Roxy noticed, Lara has grown up to which Roxy believes that Lara will eventually calm down just like she did at her age. Roxy is also aware that Lara and her future role in the battle against Hitogami and would worry what will happen to her afterwards but later thought that worrying about it is pointless
 so Roxy would set her up in matchmaking sessions or even introduce jobs to her but these had no effect on Lara. When Lara decides to suddenly go on a journey, Roxy is the most worried of Lara that she repeatedly glances at the window that Lara might return.

Lily Greyrat

The Second daughter between Rudeus and Roxy. She's an airhead and has no interest in anything other than Magic tools and Magic Items. She would later join Zanoba's company and inherit the
Magic Armor
 research from her father, in addition to the production of an All-Purpose Magic Armor. Lily also has topographical disorientation, making her prone to getting lost even when walking back home. She later moves out of her parents' home and into her own place, but still resides in Ranoa.

Rokari Migurdia

Her mother. Roxy thought her mother saw her as a burden but when she visited her parents after the mana disaster, Roxy viewed her as someone who truly cares. Her parents would explain how difficult it was for them to learn to speak vocally. Yet, they did it because they did not want Roxy to feel alone. They didn't want her to leave the tribe, but was not against it when Roxy decided to explore the world as they themselves know she could never truly feel like she belongs in the tribe. When Roxy returns home and Rokari brought up Rudeus as a potential partner, Roxy blushes and dismisses the idea. When Roxy and Rudeus brought Lara to visit her grandparents and discovers that she retains the tribe's telepathy ability, Roxy suggest to leave Lara with her grandparents so she can has a sense of belonging.

Rowin Migurdia

Her father. Roxy thought her father saw her as a burden but when she visited after the mana disaster, Roxy viewed him as someone who loves her, albeit overprotective. Her parents would explain how difficult it was for them to learn to speak vocally. Yet, they did it because they did not want Roxy to feel alone. They didn't want her to leave the tribe, but was not against it when Roxy decided to explore the world as they themselves know she could never truly feel like she belongs in the tribe. Rowin is the reason for Roxy's fear of the Superd, as he would often scare her to do things (ex: don't leave the village or they will come eat you) with horrible tales of this demonic tribe eating children. It'd scare Roxy to the point of urination. Growing into adulthood, she still gets nervous while hearing the name Superd or facing Ruijerd. Rowin is shown to be very protective of his daughter; as upon their first meeting, Rudeus suggests Rowin to give Roxy's hand in marriage, the later flat-out refuses. When Roxy and Rudeus brought Lara to visit her grandparents and discovers that she retains the tribe's telepathy ability, Roxy suggest to leave Lara with her grandparents so she can has a sense of belonging.

Claire Latreia

Claire Latreia is Roxy's grandmother in law after being married to Rudeus. Roxy has heard about Claire and her stance towards
Demons
 since she is part of the
Demon Race Expulsion Faction
 and is prepared to be treated poorly when they go to visit the
Latreia Family
 at
Millishion
. However Claire advises her to be careful should their be abnormalities that appear on their children indirectly referring to Lara. But when Lara finds the golden locket Claire lost, she admits that she was mistaken and and tells her Lara is just fine. This caused Roxy to think that she can get along with Claire even though she hasn't known her for long and may never meet again after her meeting

Sylphiette Greyrat

Roxy and Sylphiette in the Anime
Sylphiette telling Roxy when her child will be born
Roxy and Sylphiette in the Light Novel
1/3

Sylphiette first heard of Roxy from Rudeus whom he regards with respect and praise that made Sylphiette jealous. When Rudeus informs her that he wants to make Roxy his second wife, Sylphiette is initially silent but after Roxy is about to leave, Sylphiette stops her and despite Roxy admitting she has ulterior motives for sleeping with Rudeus, Sylphiette accepts her to be Rudeus' second wife after admitting of being jealous of her but sees her as someone who loves Rudeus.

In the timeline where Rudeus does not exist, Roxy trains Sylphiette as her apprentice and like Sylphiette, she never marries.

Eris Greyrat

Roxy and Sylphiette welcoming Eris in the Light Novel
Roxy and Eris in the Light Novel
1/2

Roxy once applied to be the tutor of Eris but was declined and later recognizes who she is when Rudeus tells her and Sylphy of her plan to make Eris her third wife to which Roxy intends to respect.
 When meeting Eris for the first time, Roxy is shuddered by Eris' endowed figure like Sylphy and they later joined Eris into rescuing Rudeus who is
battling Orsted
 and after things settle down, she welcomes Eris to be part of their family.

Friends

Bloody Kant

A adventurer that she met in her village when she was young, she become her first master, training Roxy in the most basic magic and telling her stories about the world, after giving to Roxy her first wand, symbol of her graduation, she left the village. Roxy met her again in Asura kingdom, after helping her and before Roxy departs, Bloody Kant gave her old hat to her.

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Elinalise Dragonroad

She met Elinalise when she started to searching Rudeus and his family, they became good friends. She would get embarrassed when Elinalise was so comfortable with "the deed" with random people in the places they stayed on their search for Zenith and the other Greyrats after the teleportation incident.

After becoming Rudeus's second wife, Roxy would seek Elinalise for advice on bedroom techniques.

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Tallhand

Roxy, Tallhand and Elinalise travelling together in the Anime
Talhand carrying Roxy out of the Teleportation Labyrinth in the Anime
Roxy using Healing on Talhand
1/3

Roxy first meet Tallhand when she started to searching for Rudeus and his family in the aftermath of the
Teleport Incident
 where they begin the search at the
Demon Continent
 since she knows the place. During their journey, Roxy would intervene on the fights between Tallhand and Elinalise that would eventually lead to his aversion towards groups to diminish

Others

Jinas Halfas

Jinas became Roxy's teacher when she was studying at
Ranoa Magic Academy
 after reaching Advanced Rank Water Magic and later progresses to become a Saint Rank Water Magician. Jinas and Roxy would also argue with each other and after Roxy graduated from the the academy, she left to travel without saying anything to Jinas.

Pax Shirone





Roxy punishing Pax in the Anime



He was her student when she worked in the kingdom of Shirone, after training Rudeus, she was disappointed by the growth of Pax. When she finds him again years later, she discovers that her attitude against him hurts him greatly. Pax had an obsession with Roxy when he was young.

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

References