Roxy's Homecoming
 (
ロキシーの帰還
,

Rokishī no Kikan
)
 is the twenty-second chapter of the
Mushoku Tensei

manga adaptation
.

Cover Characters

Roxy Migurdia

Summary

On a ship bound for the Demon Continent, Roxy gets seasick and is returned to her cabin by a crewman, where she dreams a memory. Leaving Shirone after the massive light in the sky, Roxy was immediately worried for Rudy and traveled East only to find paved flatlands where once stood villages. In despair over losing the Greyrat family, her extended family, she is advised by the coachman to head to the refugee center to learn more. There, she encounters a suicidal man and another Fittoan who returned after a long trek back, the latter sharing how the event was deemed to be a rare magical calamity that teleported everyone caught in the light around the world, many of which died where they landed.

Directed into the makeshift town to the temporary Adventurer's Guild, Roxy finds Rudeus, Zenith, Lilia and Aisha on the list of the Missing persons but not confirmed deceased. Remembering about Norn from Rudeus's letters, Roxy finds Paul's flyer addressed to Rudeus explaining that Norn was in his care while the other three were still missing, and that all information about them was to be forwarded to the Adventurer's Guild in Millis, leaving Rudeus alone knowing he can fend for himself. With the latter half of the message addressed to anyone reading to help find his family, Roxy's reads mention of the "Fangs of the Black Wolf" and realizes Paul was on the legendary S-Rank team. Once Roxy voices how she believes in searching the Demon or Begarid continents, she finds she reached the same conclusion as two other adventurers: Elinalise Dragonroad and Talhand.

Deducing Roxy in a Migurdian adventurer, they introduce themselves and since they were each planning to search the Demon continent, Roxy joins them due to her originating from there. Once their party is formed, they set sail, and Roxy is nudged awake by Elinalise once they reach port. Making landfall, Roxy ponders how Rudeus could be doing, knowing that he was a prodigy and he is most assuredly alive given his talent, thus Roxy swears to find Rudeus being that she is his master.

Appearances

Characters

Roxy Migurdia

Zenith Greyrat
 (Flashback)

Lilia Greyrat
 (Flashback)

Paul Greyrat
 (Flashback)

Rudeus Greyrat
 (Flashback)

Elinalise Dragonroad

Talhand

Skills

Regions

Others

Differences from Light Novel

Trivia

To Be Added.

Navigation