Information

Chronology

Relationships

Powers and Abilities

Gallery

This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!





Rudeus' Relationship in the Manga



Family

Paul Greyrat

Rudeus and Paul at the Season 2 Part 2 ending
Paul together with Rudeus in the Anime
Paul upset with Rudeus in the Anime
Paul battling Rudeus before they separate
Paul battling Rudeus in Millishion
Rudeus reuniting with Rudeus in Millishion
Rudeus and Paul reconciling in the Anime
Rudeus reuniting with Paul in the Begaritt Continent
Paul upset with Rudeus after seeing Zenith in the Anime
1/9

Paul Greyrat is Rudeus' father in the
Human World
 who trains him in the basics of the
Sword God Style
 and teaches him to protect the weak. Initially, Rudeus didn't see Paul as a father figure and instead saw him as a close friend who has the same perverted interests while Paul sees Rudeus like himself when he was younger.
 When Rudeus asks Paul to look for a job for him so he can earn money for him and Sylphy to study at
Ranoa Magic Academy
, Paul sees that Rudeus is making Sylphy to be too dependent on him and decides to separate them but is also aware that he cannot win against Rudeus when it comes to talking so he decides to fight him and knock him out before sending him to the
Citadel of Roa
.

When they reunite after the
Teleport Incident
 they had a falling out, but they reconcile soon after. He later joins him together with the former members of the Fangs of Black Wolf to reach the final floor of the
Teleport Labyrinth
 in the
Begaritt Continent
 to save Roxy and Zenith. During the final fight with the final boss Hydra, Paul saves Rudeus from a surprise attack after they are under the impression that it is dead, and was cut in half from his waist. He died knowing his son was safe. His death had deeply affected Rudeus.

Zenith Greyrat

Zenith:"Rudy"
Rudeus:"Yes, Mother?"
Zenith:"Thank you for being born"





Zenith healing Rudeus in the Anime



Zenith is the mother of Rudeus who she sees as a genius for being able to cast and intermediate rank spells at 3 years old.
 After the
Teleport Incident
, Rudeus continue to search for Zenith where he would build his reputation on each city in the Northern
Central Continent
 by helping out fellow adventurers and in returns, ask them to spread his name with the chance that Zenith will recognize him since his ability to use chantless incantation is a rare ability among magicians and they could find each other.

When Rudeus discovers that Zenith is in the
Teleportation Labyrinth
, he joins the
Fangs of the Black Wolf
 rescue her and they find that she was trapped in a Mana Crystal in the labyrinth guarded by a
Manatite Hydra
 for almost 6 years. After she had been rescued, she was thought to have lost all of her memories and emotions, which causes Rudeus to fall in to despair and depression after Paul's death and now having an invalid mother. Despite this, Rudeus brings her back to
Sharia
 where she would find a way to cure her even consulting with
Perugius Dola
 to help him.

During their trip to the
Millis Continent
, they came across the
Miko of Memory
 and through her power, it was revealed that she is capable of perceiving what is happening around her and knew what happened to her husband Paul and her life with Rudeus and his new family. Later on, it was revealed that she became a Miko and her inability to speak and her being expressionless were caused by her being in a dream-like state but still conscious of her surroundings and that she is happy with how Rudeus is looking out for her how she spends them with her grandchildren.

Lilia






Rudeus and Lilia in the Anime



When Rudeus was an infant she was afraid of him due to his smile and would try to avoid him with all their interactions being business like despite having the feeling that the child is possessed. After he convinces Zenith to forgive her and stay in the household when she got pregnant by Paul she felt indebted to him and starts to see him in good light. After she moves in Rudeus' home in
Sharia
 with Zenith, she gets closer to Rudeus and he starts to think of her like his mother.

Norn Greyrat

Rudeus seeing Norn off in the Anime
Rudeus and Norn in Ranoa Magic Academy
Rudeus and Norn at the Dorm
Rudeus and Norn studying together
1/4

When she was 5 or 6, Norn had witnessed Rudeus beating up their father which caused her to end up hating her brother, this which lasted for several years.
 Even when she and Aisha moved into his house at the age of 10 she still hated and feared Rudeus, believing that he'll hit her if she disobeys him. After that, an incident happened at school where everyone started to compare her to Rudeus which caused her to seclude herself in her dorm, Rudeus, after sneaking into her dorm room, had a little talk with her. Seeing how anxious he was trying to talk to her reminded her of their father's anxious expression which made her quickly forget her hatred towards him.

Afterwards, the two ended up growing closer to each other to the point where she starts showing a bit of jealousy when he starts showing too much attention to the other girls in the household. During the time they study together, Rudeus still continue his plan to restore the honor of the Superd but only started with the description of Ruijerd to which Norn offers to help since Ruijerd has told her stories about his past which eventually lead to Rudeus discovering that Norn has a talent for writing.

Upon finding out Norn is fated to be married with
Ruijerd
 in the previous timeloops from Orsted, Rudeus helped set-up their marriage and when Rudeus tells Norn that she will be wed to Ruijerd, Norn immediately urges she wants to marry Ruijerd.

Aisha Greyrat

Rudeus escaping with Aisha in the Anime
Rudeus giving Aisha his headband in the Anime
Rudeus shopping with Aisha in the Anime
1/3

Aisha first met Rudy when she was 5 or 6 in Shirone, he saved her when she was cornered by some guards. Rudeus pretended that he wasn't her brother because of her low opinion of him. She believed that he was just a pervert due to her discovering Roxy's used panties hidden in his room. She quickly figured out that Rudy was her brother, though it's possible that she probably already knew from the start, and ended up testing him to see if he was a bad person or not. When she and Norn moved into Rudeus' house at age 10, she was the only one of the two excited to live with him. She loves her brother dearly and will sometime make attempts to seduce him. Despite all of that, she's willing to blackmail him to get what she wants as she once had threatened to reveal his hidden shrine, that contained Roxy's used panties, if he didn't allow her to keep a
baby treant
 that she was growing in her room, forcing him to consent. Aisha was the only one who knew Rudeus was reincarnated from another world due to their previous adventures together.

Wives

Sylphiette Greyrat

Rudeus teaching Sylphiette Voiceless Incantation in the Anime
Sylphiette forgiving Rudeus
Rudeus tutoring Sylphy in the Anime
Sylphiette not wanting to separate from Rudeus
Rudeus meeting Fitz in the Anime
Rudeus learning Fitz is Sylphy in the Anime
Rudeus showing Sylphy their new house
Rudeus and Sylphy's wedding reception
1/8

Rudeus met Sylphiette at the age of 5. They became friends when Rudeus saved her from being bullied. During their time together, Rudeus taught her
Magic
, so that she could defend herself from bullies and also educated her in various fields of subjects. Rudeus originally thought she was a boy because of her short hair. He had planned to use Sylphy to pick up women. However, one day, after getting wet in the rain and not wanting Sylphy to catch a cold and as a prank, he forcefully stripped her and learned that she was not a boy. She was extremely attached to Rudeus, and Rudeus intended to bring her with him to attend
Ranoa Magic Academy
. When he asked his parents to pay for both of their tuition but was rejected, he was willing to work so that he could earn her tuition as well, seeing Sylphy getting attached and started to overly dependent on Rudeus, Paul separated them and forbade Rudeus to contact home because Sylphy it is not good for her growth. They were supposed to reunite in five years once Rudeus became 12 and attend Ranoa Magic Academy together, but the events of the
Teleport Incident
 caused her whereabouts to be unknown to Rudeus. After 8 years, they finally reunited in Ranoa Magic Academy, but he could not recognize her since she was disguised as a boy, wearing ( magical ) sunglasses, and no longer had her emerald green hair due to it turning white. After many encounters, Rudeus eventually realized that Sylphy, who goes by the name Fitts, was a girl. After Sylphy recreated a childhood event and was able to make Rudeus realize that she was Sylphy, Rudeus took her virginity after she gave him an aphrodisiac to cure him of his illness. The day after she lost her virginity to Rudeus, he cut out a piece of bedcloth that contained some of Sylphy's blood and put it in a box, worshipping it like what he did with Roxy's panties. They soon got married and Sylphy got pregnant with their daughter Lucy Greyrat, years later with their son Sieghart Saladin Greyrat. She is the Goddess of Love in Rudeus' religion.

Roxy Greyrat

Roxy and Rudeus sharing their first kiss in the Anime
Roxy comforting Rudeus after Paul's death
Roxy and Rudeus in the Teleportation Labyrinth
Roxy and Rudeus studying the book for the Teleportation Labyrinth
Rudeus embracing Roxy after saving her
Roxy giving Rudeus a Magic Wand
Roxy training Rudeus in Magic
1/7

Rudy met Roxy at the age of 3 and when his parents hired her as a magic tutor and and in additional taught him many other things from her. At the age of 5, during his graduation from Roxy's lesson's she cured him of his fear of the outside, and for this, Rudeus was extremely grateful towards her and even follow her path of being a tutor for Sylphy and later Eris. From then on, they only talked by letters and Rudy is very grateful when Roxy sent him a book to learn the
Demon God Language
 and even made a figurine doll of Roxy. By the time he had split up with Eris, Rudeus had began worshiping Roxy's artifact (panties) and hailed her as his god for what she had done for him. When they were finally reunited, Roxy didn't recognize Rudeus as how he has grown up into a young man, which led to him being in shock before she found out who he was. When Rudeus was grieving about Paul's death, Roxy came to his aid and had sex with him, which helped Rudeus recover from his depression. After the events of the
Teleport Labyrinth
, Roxy becomes Rudeus' second wife. They had two daughters, Lara Greyrat and Lily Greyrat. She is the Goddess of Wisdom in Rudeus' religion.

Eris Greyrat

Rudeus using X-Healing on Eris
Eris and Rudeus escaping captivity in the Anime
Eris and Rudeus training in Swordsmanship in the Anime
Eris and Rudeus dancing together in the Anime
Eris and Rudeus during the Teleport Incident
Eris and Rudeus in the Demon Continent
Eris consoling Rudeus in the Anime
Eris and Rudeus spending the night together
1/8

Rudy met Eris at the age of 7 where he is sent to be her tutor. During their time together at the
Citadel of Roa
, Rudeus tutors Eris in various fields such as writing, reading, math and
Magic
 and Eris begins to change over time. During Eris' 10th birthday, Rudeus helps her overcome her struggles in dancing and eventually fallen in love with Rudeus and openly praising him.

After the events of the
Teleport Incident
, they traveled together through the
Demon Continent
 and
Millis Continent
. When the trip was over and they managed to come back, Eris and Rudeus had their first night together, the next morning Eris was gone. this caused Rudeus to enter a state of depression and develop ED.

Since their separation, Rudeus believes that she cannot face Eris if they ever meet again but this changed after meeting his
future self
 and writes a letter to her. After 5 years, they reunited after
battling Orsted
 and Eris became Rudeus' third wife. Due to Rudeus' low skill in swordsmanship, Eris became his partner and swordswoman whenever they set on an adventure. She helped Rudeus during the fight for the crown in the
Asura Kingdom
, defeating
North Emperor Auber
 together with
Ghislaine
. During the final fight with
Geese
, she took on the Sword God
Gal Farion
 together with
Ruijerd
 splitting them away from Rudeus. They had two children together, Ars Greyrat and Christina Greyrat. She is the Goddess of War in Rudeus' religion.

Children

Lucy Greyrat

Lucy is Rudeus' and Sylphy's daughter. When she was 3 years old. she had a tendency to run away from her father whenever he came back because she didn't see him as a father but a complete stranger which was caused by him often being away from home. Later on she grew close to him, enjoying the time spent with him and complaining about his work taking him away from her.

Lara Greyrat

Lara is Rudeus' and Roxy's daughter. She has a strong look on her face and she hardly ever cries. The only time she really cried was when Rudeus was going to go to Shirone and she didn't stop crying until Rudeus decided to take Roxy with him. She is also the legendary Hero that the
Sacred Beast
 is supposed to protect.

Ars Greyrat

Ars is Rudeus' and Eris' son. He loves Boobs like any other Greyrat male. He especially likes his mother's breasts, but he is not limited to just big ones. He likes small ones like Sylphy's and Roxy's to large ones like
Linia's
 and
Pursena's
. Like his father, he does not discriminate between the sizes. He does not care much for males and will cry whenever Rudeus tries to picks him up to hold him.

Sieghart Saladin Greyrat

Sieghart is Rudeus' and Sylphy's son. He has a green hair almost like his mother and has a face similar to his father. Rudeus and Sylphy initially thought he was the reincarnation of Laplace and brought him to
Perugius
, who confirmed he wasn't. Also, his real name is only Sieghart Greyrat, he got Saladin name from Perugius and due to Rudeus and his family already liking his name, Saladin became his middle name.

Lily Greyrat

Lily is Rudeus' and Roxy's second daughter. At the time of the Jobless Oblige Story Lily still lives at Rudeus' House but later at the time of the Redundancy Chapter: The Last One to Leave the Nest she moved out. Rudeus inherited her his

Magic Armor research, and the production of an All-Purpose Magic Armor was completed in K483. It was useful for reducing the amount of casualties during the subjugation of large monsters.

Christina Greyrat

Christina is Rudeus' and Eris' daughter and the youngest child of the family. Amongst the siblings, she is the one that is most open about wanting to be spoiled by Rudeus. She's a daddy's girl and listens to him rather than to her mothers. Rudeus was skeptical at Christina's attitude when she first attended Asura Royal Academy as she was naive. However, after three years, he attended her graduation and was impressed when she turned around a plot to embarrass her in front of the nobles and
Ariel
. Afterwards, Rudeus showed her he was proud of what she became but was shortly interrupted when
Edward
, the son of
Luke
 and Ariel, asked for her hand in marriage.

Others

Ghislaine Dedoldia






Rudeus and Ghislaine in the Anime



Sword King Ghislaine Dedoldia is a member of the Fangs of the Black Wolf with Paul and Zenith until it was disbanded.
 At the request of Paul, Ghislaine picks up Rudeus and brings him to the
Citadel of Roa
 to become Eris' tutor and also teach Ghislaine
Magic
, math and reading while Ghislaine in turn teaches Rudeus the
Beast God Language
 and
Sword God Style
 while also acting as his bodyguard with Eris.

Ruijerd Superdia






Rudeus and Ruijerd



"Before, when I handed him this pendant, it was over a trivial matter. When we parted, I never intended for him to give it back to me, I hoped that he would hold onto it. Or perhaps I wanted to have a link with him. But he had returned it now. Because we were already brethren. Because we won’t be parting for quite some time now."

- Rudeus in regards to Ruijerd

His brother-in-law. Rudeus first meets Ruijerd at the
Demon Continent
 after the teleport incident and at the behest of Hitogami. After learning the Ruijerd's past, Rudeus offers to assist him in restoring the honor of his
Superd Tribe
 and after reaching an understanding on their personality they became close allies.
 Rudeus is incredibly faithful towards Ruijerd considering his wellbeing as one of his top priorities,
 and describing their friendship as one of his greatest sources of pride.
 After they went their separate ways, Rudeus still continues to help in restoring the honor of the Superd by making a storybook about them and selling Superd dolls.
 During the final battle arc Rudeus reunites with Ruijerd and manages to convince him to fight alongside him despite the risk this posed to the Superd tribe. Rudeus is furious at
Orsted
 for withholding information about Ruijerd's whereabouts and condition to the point he almost considered Orsted his enemy.
 When Orsted gives him a mission to arrange for Norn's wedding, he is surprised Norn is fated to marry Ruijerd. After confirming Ruijerd also has feeling for Norn and wants to marry her, Ruijerd returns the Migurd pendant as he considers him a part of his family now.
 They have a running gag where Rudeus likes to tease him by calling him father.

Zanoba Shirone






Rudeus and Zanoba in the Anime



"No one can match his abilities in regards to knowledge of dolls."

-Rudeus in regards to Zanoba

Rudeus was once saved by Zanoba when he got trapped in the Shirone Kingdom. He bought the earth doll of Roxy that Rudeus made, and when he found out that he made it, he was overjoyed and asked Rudeus to be his master, he then freed Rudeus and never saw him until Rudeus went to
Ranoa Magic Academy
. Zanoba greatly respects Rudeus and reports all of his doll research's results to him, which Rudeus in turn gives help and advice on how to improve his creations. Zanoba is slowly able to relate to humans and understand human emotion (at least conceptually) through his friendship with Rudeus.

Elinalise Dragonroad






Rudeus and Elinalise in the Anime



Elinalise first meets Rudeus at the city of Pippin, Basherant Kingdom and introduces herself to be a member of Paul's Party
Fangs of the Black Wolf
 then informs Rudeus that her mother has been found and Paul is going to rescue her. Since then, Elinalise has been Rudeus' companion where they head to
Ranoa Magic Academy
 in
Sharia
 and much to Rudeus' chagrin, she picks up men on the way but refuses to make advances on Rudeus since she has a history with Paul and does not want to be his mother in law.
 With the help of Rudeus, Elinalise and
Cliff Grimoire
 became a couple where they eventually marry and when Cliff returns to
Millishion
, he entrusts Elinalise under Rudeus' care until she can stay with him in Millishion.

Cliff Grimoire






Rudeus and Cliff in the Anime



"If Cliff-senpai wasn't here, then i wouldn't be here."

-Rudeus in regards to Cliff

Rudeus and Cliff first met at
Ranoa Magic Academy
. He was unfriendly to him at first, seeing him as a love rival between him and Eris, but after finding out he was a friend of
Elinalise
, whom he fell love at first sight, he asked Rudeus to introduce her to him and became friends with Rudeus afterwards. Upon knowing the curse of Elinalise, he and Rudeus find a way to suppress it by inventing a magic diaper/panties charged with Rudeus' magic. He also helped Rudeus in finding a medicine for Nanahoshi in the
Demon Continent
, where he received a
Demon Eye
 from
Kirishika
 by feeding her streetfood. After graduating from the academy, Rudeus and Cliff sets to
Millis Kingdom
 with the aim of becoming a high ranking official in the continent, however Cliff refuses to accept Rudeus help with the reason that he wants to make it on his own. During Rudeus' adventure in the Biheiril Kingdom, he came to his aid by using the demon eye he received from Kishirika to find the remedy for the unknown plague affecting the
Superd Tribe
, saving Ruijerd.

Perugius Dola

Perugius is Rudeus' teacher for Summoning Magic. Rudeus meets Perugius when Nanahoshi agrees to bring him along with his friends to Perugius' flying fortress for an audience with him.
 When Nanhoshi falls ill from
Drain Syndrome
, Perugius agrees to assist Rudeus while searching for a cure in the Demon Continent where, the opportunity to get revenge on
Atoferatofe Rybak
 was made by Rudeus at the delight of Perugius.

Under the guidance of Perugius, Rudeus and Zanoba creates
Anne
 an automaton doll based on Perugius' familiars that makes the summoned beast loyal to its master to the surprise of Perugius that Anne is more human than his familiars.

Orsted






Rudeus battling Orsted in the Anime



"With each person he encounters, the world greatly changes."

-Orsted

Rudeus first encounters while travelling back to Buena Village and nearly died in their
battle
.
 He became Orsted's subordinate after their second battle and has been working together ever since to prepare for the battle against Hitogami while Orsted would protect Rudeus' family. To prepare for the battle, Rudeus would do missions on Orsted's behalf to conserve his mana from gathering allies to thwarting Hitogami's plans.

Geese Nukadia






Rudeus and Geese in the Anime



Rudeus first encounters Geese when while in prison at the
Beast Race
 Village in the
Great Forest
 and they travelled together where Geese would cook for them until they part ways in
Millishion
.
 Through the intervention of Geese, Rudeus and Paul were able to return good terms after their quarrel.

Badigadi






Rudeus and Badigadi in the Anime



Badigadi took interest on Rudeus after hearing how
Kishirika Kishirisu
 praises Rudeus' Mana capacity which made him jealous and eventually challenges him to a duel at Ranoa Magic Academy. Rudeus on the other hand was initially bewildered at Badigadi's presence and demeanor.
 Although Badigadi admits defeat, he is seen together with Rudeus' group during lunchtime and would also help Rudeus and his friends out.

Julie






Rudeus and Juliette in the Anime



Juliette was a
slave
 that Rudeus and Zanoba purchased to teach her Earth Magic so she can make dolls for Zanoba. Aside from this, Rudeus also teaches Juliette Silent Spellcasting and the Human God
Language
 which in turn, Juliette refers to Rudeus as Grandmaster since Zanoba calls Rudeus his Master. Rudeus also opposed the idea that Juliette to be branded with a mark for slaves since Rudeus considers her to be another disciple.

Hitogami






Rudeus and Hitogami in the Anime



Rudeus first encounters Hitogami in the aftermath of the
Teleport Incident
 where Hitogami seems to give helpful advises but he is plotting to have him killed since then. Through out the series, Hitogami has been working behind the scenes to kill Rudeus  because of his descendants being destined to ally with Orsted and will kill him in the future. Hitogami successfully prevented this future but the
Rudeus
 of that timeline managed to travel back in time to warn his younger self and foiled the plot he is about to do.

Nanahoshi Shizuka






Rudeus and Nanahoshi in the Anime



Rudeus first meets Nanahoshi at the
Red Wyrm Mountains
 during his travels with his party Dead End, but he didn't have any interactions with her until they meet again at Ranoa Magic Academy. Rudeus later learns that it was Nanahoshi who suggested to Orsted to spare Rudeus instead which causes Rudeus' fear towards Nanahoshi to eventually fade and they agreed to work together in conducting research on
Summoning Magic
. Through the years, they both continue research on various fields and Rudeus' friends view his inexplicable behavior towards Nanahoshi with mixed reactions such as Sylphiette being jealous of their closeness
 while Zanoba views Rudeus' treatment to Nanahoshi to how he also treats his sisters.
 Despite being from the same world, the two generally maintain a professional distance from each other.

When Nanahoshi fell into depression and grew ill, Rudeus brings her to his
home
 and nurse her to recovery.
 Through the help of his friends they are able to help Nanahoshi advance her Summoning Magic Research
 and in return, Nanahoshi allows Rudeus and his friends to meet with Perugius.

Linia Dedoldia






Rudeus battling Linia in the Anime



Rudeus first meets Linia Ranoa Magic University where he introduces himself to be an acquaintance of her
father
 and
grandfather
 and they barely have any interactions until Rudeus learns that Linia is responsible for the destruction of the Roxy figurine that he gave to Zanoba which angers him. Rudeus and Zanoba defeats Linia and Pursena where they gag them and confine them in Rudeus' room where they eventually acknowledge their wrongdoings and begin to call Rudeus their "Boss".
 Linia and Rudeus gradually warm up to each other. Linia eventually comes to serve the Greyrat family as a debted slave, first as a maid and then as the head of a mercenary company.

Pursena Adoldia






Rudeus immobilizing Linia with Quagmire in the Anime



Like Linia, Rudeus also meets Pursena at Ranoa Magic University
 who also begins calling Rudeus her Boss after being defeated by him.  Together with Linia they would argue on who will be the "Number 2" rank of their boss and would make suggestions to show their dominance like demanding girls to surrender their panties which Rudeus rejected and also tells them to stop bullying the weak. Like Rudeus, Pursena also studied Advanced Class Healing Magic.
 Despite the imprisonment and torture, Pursena quickly warms up to Rudeus. Rudeus, likewise, views her fondly and arranged to have Pursena work for him as her punishment from the Beast Tribe rather than her being permanently exiled.

Silent Fitz






Rudeus and Silent Fitz in the Anime



Rudeus first meets Silent Fitz during an entrance exam for Ranoa Magic Academy where Rudeus defeats him and to prevent Fitz from looking bad, Rudeus declares that Fitz held back so he can be accepted in the University and Rudeus also promises to make it up to him. Fitz would later intervene to protect Rudeus from being punished when he unknowingly pass by the Girl's dormitory in the evening to which Rudeus is grateful for his help and would respect him by calling him Mister Fitz.
 Until Rudeus realizes that Silent Fitz is Sylphiette in disguise, Rudeus would spend most of their time together in the Library at the University researching and Rudeus would always ask for advice during situations he is at a loss on what to do. She helps Rudeus when he ties up Linia and Pursena in his room, at which she is reasonably worried by. Fitz uses some magic circle ink in order to convince the two that if they ever betray Rudeus, an incantation would be able to permanently etch the ink into their bodies. The last thing that Silent Fitz does before revealing herself to Rudeus is asking Rudy to assist her in finding a flower to impress some nobles on Ariel's behalf.

Sara

Rudeus rescuing Sara in the Anime
Rudeus healing Sara in the Anime
Rudeus and Sara on a date in the Anime
Rudeus and Sara reuniting in the Special Book Manga
1/4

Sara initially reminds him of Eris because of their talent but overall keeps his distance while Sara dislikes Rudeus for being related to the Asura Kingdom Nobility.
 After rescuing Sara from certain death, she begins to warm up to him that they even go on a date but it caused a misunderstanding that causes them to go their separate ways.

Rudeus and Sara would meet when they are both assigned to an escort mission of a Ranoa Kingdom Royalty and they reconciled.
 They would later meet again at the Conflict Zone where Sara and her party are unable to leave so  Rudeus asks Sara, who is now the leader of their party to join them to leave the zone which Sara decides that she will quit being an Adventurer and get married.
 Years later, Rudeus and Sara meets at the Citadel of Roa and to Rudeus' surprise, Sara is now married and is running a restaurant with her husband where Rudeus plans to visit whenever he is nearby.

Soldat Heckler

Rudeus first meeting with Soldat in the Anime
Rudeus and Soldat talking in the Anime
Soldat asking Rudeus to join him
Soldat's party completing the mission to slay a Red Dragon
Soldat seeing Rudeus off
1/5

Soldat initially dislikes Rudeus for his behavior while Rudeus sees Soldat's personality to be like Paul. After coming to an understanding of what has happened to Rudeus, Soldat begins to help him out such and when Rudeus broke up with Sara, Soldat offers that he join him to a mission to another town and since then would join his party for missions such as slaying a rogue
Red Dragon
.

Pets

Leo

Rudeus meeting Leo in the Anime
Rudeus summoning Leo to be the Protector of their Family in the Light Novel
1/2

Rudeus first meets Leo when rescuing the
Beast Race
 that were kidnapped but is he is later captured and taken to the Beast Race Village and at Leo's request to treat him kindly even while imprisoned.
 Rudeus later summons Leo to become the Guardian Beast of their family has been together with his family ever since especially when watching over Lara.

Jirou

Rudeus
 purchases Jirou along with a carriage to be pulled for preparations to travel from the
Begaritt Continent
 to
Sharia
 that will be used as a ride for
Zenith
 and
Lilia
 (in the Anime) as they travel through the desert. Rudeus initially plans to leave Jirou in the desert but decides to bring him since he can fit in the Teleportion Circle instead of letting him die in the desert. Upon arriving at the Northern Central Continent, Jirou seems to be struggling with the cold and could anytime that Rudeus decides to at least give him a name and decides that it will be Jirou. But Jirou manages to survive and gets used to the cold temperature in Sharia. Due to Jirou's tendency to sleep between the legs of Rudeus, Sylphy sees that to be a similarity between Jirou and Rudeus.
.

Beat

Beat is a baby
Treant
 Monster that Aisha cultivated in her room and until it starts moving after being transplanted to a pot. Rudeus initially wants to burn the baby treant but he is stopped by Aisha after she blackmails him into revealing his shrine at the basement for his wives. Rudeus finally agrees to keep Beat after Roxy confirms that the
Migurd
 train these treants to keep birds out of the field which also causes a rumor that a monster lives in Rudeus' house.

References

Navigation

Greyrat Household

Family Head

Rudeus Greyrat

Members

Paul Greyrat
 •
Zenith Greyrat
 •
Lilia Greyrat
 •
Norn Greyrat
 •
Aisha Greyrat

Sylphiette
 •
Roxy Migurdia
 •
Eris Boreas Greyrat


Lucy Greyrat
 •
Lara Greyrat
 •
Ars Greyrat
•
Sieghart Saladin Greyrat

Servants

Rinia Dedorudia
 •
Pursena Adorudia

Pets

Leo
 •
Beat
 •
Jirou
 •
Matsukaze