This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!





Rudeus vs Orsted in the Anime



Rudeus vs Orsted I
, also known as
Dead End vs Orsted
 is a battle between Rudeus Greyrat, Dead End against Orsted at Red Wyrm Mountain, Central Continent in K419 and this battle is also the second Turning Point in Rudeus' life.

Belligerents

Rudeus Greyrat

Orsted

Eris Boreas Greyrat

Ruijerd Superdia

Although
Nanahoshi Shizuka
 is with Orsted when he encounters Rudeus, she never took part in the battle.

Prelude

Dead End's Journey





Dead End Party Travelling in the Anime



In
K417
, before the
Teleport Incident
 manifests, Orsted notices a red orb above the
Citadel of Roa
 and mobilizes towards the orb to  investigate. Meanwhile, Rudeus together with Eris and
Ghislaine Dedoldia
 are outside Roa when the Teleport Incident occurs causing Rudeus and Eris to be teleported to the
Demon Continent
 where they are saved by Ruijerd.
 Together, Rudeus, Eris and Ruijerd forms the
Dead End

Adventurer Party
 to earn money while travelling back to
Asura Kingdom
 for the next 3 years.

Orsted and Nanahoshi






Orsted and Nanahoshi travelling in the Manga



In the grasslands of Asura Kingdom, Orsted arrives at the area where the Teleport Incident occurred and finds Nanahoshi who was summoned from Earth so he helps her and a year later, Nanahoshi learns the
Human God Language
 then the year after, Orsted and Nanahoshi travels to Ars, Asura Kingdom's capital where she establishes various businesses that allows her to earn money through Orsted's influence as the Dragon God while gathering information on how to return to earth. They then travelled around the
Human World
 looking for Nanahoshi's friends in their journey.

Encounter

"Rudeus, whatever you do, don't move. Eris, you too."

-Ruijerd






Dead End Party meeting Orsted and Nanahoshi



In K419, Rudeus, Eris and Ruijerd are still travelling back to Asura Kingdom and at the Red Wyrm Mountain, they encounter Orsted and Nanahoshi also travelling where Eris and Ruijerd are visibly in fear of Orsted as he pass by them. Realizing who they were, Orsted turns back and greet them like they know who they are with the exception of Rudeus to which Orsted questions who he is and Rudeus answers while Orsted notices that Rudeus does not fear him unlike Eris and Ruijerd. After few more exchanges, Orsted and Nanahoshi is about to leave but Rudeus stops them and asks Orsted if he knows anything about the Teleport Incident to which Orsted also replies he does not know. Orsted then asks Rudeus if he is familiar with
Hitogami
 to which Rudeus replies he appears in his dream but Orsted suddenly attacks him.

Battle

Ruijerd vs Orsted

"You are in the way, Ruijerd Superdia!"

-Orsted






Ruijerd battling Orsted in the Anime



Ruijerd manage to block Orsted's attack directed to Rudeus and he tells both Rudeus and Eris to run as he begins to battle Orsted.
Rudeus in shock and unable to runaway is only able to see the battle between the two. Ruijerd attacks Orsted relentlessly but Orsted easily dodges and parries all attacks while being able to position in Ruijerd's blind spots. Using the
Dragon Tribe
 Fighting Style:
Teaching of Nail, Fangs and Wings
, Orsted lands his strikes on Ruijerd's solar plexus, chin and the third punch to the temple knocks Ruijerd out as he is sent flying backwards.

Eris vs Orsted

"Eris Boreas Greyrat, you've honed your skills quite well. I believe you have potential, but... youre still unpolished."

-Orsted






Eris vs Orsted in the Anime



The moment Ruijerd is defeated, Eris immediately attacks Orsted from outside his line of sight with her
Inscription-less Sword
 but Orsted is able to catch her sword with his hand and counter attacks with
Flow
, a Water God Style counter attack. This causes Eris to be knocked back and spinning then crashing onto the cliff face but Eris still tries to get up but is unable to fight any further.

Rudeus vs Orsted

"Is that a
power
 you gained from
Hitogami
? What else did he give you?"

-Orsted

Rudeus vs Orsted in the Anime
Orsted summoning Dragon Gate in the Anime
Rudeus casting Nuclear Explosion in the Anime
Dragon Gate cracks for absorbing too much mana
Rudeus defeated by Orsted in the Anime
1/5

With Ruijerd and Eris defeated, Rudeus would normally try to heal them but Orsted is glaring at him and when he uses his
Foresight Eyes
, all he sees is despair of being defeated by Orsted no matter what he do. Seconds later, Orsted closes in and fractures 6 ribs of Rudeus to prevent him for casting spells which also causes him to cough up blood and curl over. Seeing that Rudeus is on death's door, Orsted begins to leave but despite realizing that he is on death's door, Rudeus sees Orsted let his guard down so he casts
Stone Cannon
, the spell he is most familiar with that Rudeus modified to be the hardest he can conjure, at the fastest speed with the quickest spin. and launches it to Orsted but he smashes the Stone Cannon with his bare hand that leaves a small wound that surprises Orsted. Rudeus tries to use
Fireball
 but Orsted nullifies it with
Disturb Magic
. Rudeus realizes that his right hand is sealed by Disturb Magic so he uses
Blast
 from his left hand which knocks him and Orsted back.

Rudeus begins to cast his strongest fire spell
Nuclear Explosion
 while Orsted summons
Dragon Gate
 and when gate opened, the Mana gathering in Rudeus' left hand is swallowed by the gate. Moments later, the frame of the Dragon Gate cracks and splinters followed by a smaller explosion than Rudeus expected and causing Orsted to mention that Rudeus'
Mana
 capacity is almost on the same level as
Laplace
. With Rudeus' wounds taking its toll on him, Rudeus falls to his knees and Orsted picks him up and questions why he is not using
Healing Magic
 but Rudeus is unresponsive. Orsted then finishes him off with a
spear thrust
 with his hand to Rudeus' heart, drops Rudeus, leaving a gaping hole in his chest and begins to depart while Eris who witnesses this, wails and runs to Rudeus who is not moving...

Aftermath

Rudeus talking to Hitogami in the Anime
Rudeus after being healed by Orsted in the Anime
Rudeus practicing Disturb Magic after observing Orsted
Rudeus using Stone Cannon against Badigadi in the Anime
1/4

Eris tries to use Healing Magic on Rudeus but is unable to do so

At Nanahoshi's request, Orsted lets Rudeus live by using at least a King-Ranked Healing Magic on Rudeus

Rudeus once again meets Hitogami at the
Void World
 who tells him about Orsted's
Curse
 but tells him that he is still alive

Hitogami also tells Rudeus that the curse affecting Ruijerd is beginning to fade due to cutting his hair

After seeing Rudeus at the brink of death, Eris grew closer to Rudeus who promises her to escape next time

After observing Orsted, Rudeus begins practicing and learns how to use Disturb Magic

Rudeus tells Ruijerd that their opponent was Orsted, the Second rank of the
Seven Great Powers
 and Ruijerd mentions that he hasn't felt having no chance of winning since his battle against
Laplace
.

Rudeus tells Ruijerd about Hitogami and the fear and discrimination towards the
Superd Tribe
 is a curse that is also fading and restoring the reputation of the Superd Tribe is up to his effort.

After reaching
Fittoa Region
, Ruijerd part ways with Rudeus and Eris

After realizing how powerless she was against Orsted and felt like she is a burden to Rudeus, Eris decides to leave and goes to the
Holy Land of Swords
 to train with Ghislaine.

Rudeus falls into depression after being left by Eris but goes to the northern
Central Continent
 to look for Zenith and encounters the
Counter Arrow
 Party.

After battling the Dragon God and experiencing his killing intent, Rudeus is no longer intimidated even by a
Red Dragon
's killing intent which is significantly less compared to Orsted's

Rudeus wounding Orsted becomes known even by powerful beings like
Badigadi
 and
Perugius Dola
 which no one has achieved before due to Orsted's
Saint Dragon Battle Aura
 protecting him.

Rudeus uses Disturb Magic for the first time in a mock battle against
Fitz
 to enter
Ranoa Magic Academy

Badigadi arrives at the Ranoa Magic Academy to challenge Rudeus but agrees to let him do the first attack with the Stone Cannon that wounds Orsted

Fitz
 introduces Rudeus to an expert of
Summoning Magic
 who turns out to be Nanahoshi who is terrified of her but after explaining to Rudeus she asks Orsted to spare him, they agreed to work together on Nanahoshi's research

When Nanahoshi falls ill due to
Drain Syndrome
, Rudeus asks Perugius if he knows where Orsted is to ask about the sickness despite nearly being killed by him.

After being warned by
his future self
 and preventing Roxy's death due to
Magic Stone Disease
, Hitogami is angry at this but agrees to leave his
family
 alone if Rudeus kills Orsted.

Nanahoshi agrees to help Rudeus despite Orsted saving her when she is teleported to the Human World

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

References