Information

Chronology

Relationships

Powers and Abilities

Gallery

Abilities

Rudeus is a powerful magician born with a strong
Laplace factor
 which is one of the reasons for his great magical power besides his intense training at an early age. As he was reincarnated from another world, he is immune to
Orsted
's curse. This is a trait that is inherited by his descendants.

『Voiceless Incantation』





Rudeus discovering Voiceless Incantation



Rudeus is one of the few people capable of using a voiceless incantation, and even rarer as a person who can use voiceless incantation with melded magics.
 He cannot use voiceless incantation for healing magic due to his lack of understanding in regards to how
mana
 is manipulated to heal. A normal Magician takes at least five seconds for a simple spell, while for higher-level spells its thirty to sixty seconds. Rudeus can do it almost instantly no matter what difficulty of the spell, with the exception of healing magic. Rudeus needs to use the chant of a new spell being taught to him before he can use its voiceless incantation version which puzzles Orsted.

An interesting feature of Voiceless Incantation is that you can put a large amount of mana in a spell to increase it's effectiveness to your desire. This way, Rudeus was about to use Emperor-Leveled magic without his own knowledge

『Demon Eyes』

『Foresight Eye』

Demon Eye Foresight used in combat in the Anime
Demon Eye in the Anime
Demon Eye in the Manga
1/3

It's a Demon Eye that
Kishirika
 gave to Rudeus for giving her food replacing his right eye. It allows the user to see a certain amount into the future. It is difficult to adjust the focus point; the farther into the future he looks, the more unreliable it becomes.

The power of Demon Eyes are adjusted according to the amount of mana poured into them. The more mana Rudeus inputs into the Foresight Demon Eye, the farther into the future he can see. Rudeus is able to fine-tune the eye to see 10 seconds into the future reliably.

Experienced warriors can negate the Demon Eye's usefulness in battle by making split-second decisions, forcing the eye to see multiple futures. This is learned when Rudeus duels
Ruijerd
.
Badigadi
 is the only exception due to his own acquired abilities in the past that negates all demon eye to ever work against him making him invisible to the eye. The eye can also act as a conduit for another being's power as
Hitogami
 was able to show Rudeus a vision of where to find
Aisha
 and
Lilia
 through his eye. Another weakness of the eye is that it does not pick up sounds and as such,
Gyes
 was able to incapacitate Rudeus using
Howling magic
.

Overuse or losing control of the eye may cause the user some sort of pain and nausea as a result of overloading the brain. This is shown when Rudeus felt a moment of extreme nausea after Hitogami used the eye to show him a vision of the future, or when he originally received the eye and it took him a while to learn to control it since it would give him a double vision.

『Clairvoyant Eye』

It's a second Demon Eye that Kishirika gave to Rudeus for giving her a donut when she is captured by
Atofe
 replacing his left eye. It allows the user to see far away. However, the "focus point" is difficult to control. Rather than acting as a scope, the Clairvoyant Eyes seem to change the perspective of one's vision, with the amount of mana determining the distance from the user.

『Magic』

Rudeus practicing Disturb Magic
Nuclear Explosion
Rudeus using Earth Pillar to escape to the air
Earth Pillar
Rudeus casting Squall on Doldia Village
Rudeus' Earth Magic Attack
Fire Ball (Voiceless)
X-Healing
Saint Rank Water Magic Cumulonimbus
Rudeus making statuettes with Earth Magic
1/10

While Rudeus is a pacifist and doesn't like fighting in general, when he does, he is a formidable opponent. He is capable of casting magic simultaneously in both hands as well as cast melded magic in an instant. With his scientific knowledge from his previous life and creativity, he always strives for developing more efficient magics for himself to use. Most of the spells he uses a lot, like
Stone Cannon
, have been stated by
Badigadi
 to have an Emperor-class level of power. Initially, when he was a child, he mostly used water magic. However, as an adventurer, Rudeus primarily used earth magic such as Stone Cannon and his namesake, Quagmire to hinder and slow down his enemies. His total magical power has been stated by Orsted, Kishirika, Badigadi, and
Perugius Dola
 to be greater than that of Laplace. He was able to create a nuclear explosion, an extension of fire and air melded magic similar to that of the firework used in
Roa
, in his fight against Orsted. According to Orsted, this magic could be considered God-class magic [citation needed]. Rudeus also uses Earth Magic to make figures which
Zanoba
 and
Perugius
 takes interest in.

His rankings as a magician are as follows:

«Water Emperor Ranked»

«Earth Saint Ranked»

«Wind Saint Ranked»

«Fire Saint Ranked»

«Healing Magic - Saint Ranked»

«Detoxification Magic - Saint Ranked»

«Barrier Magic - Intermediate Ranked»

『Healing Magic』

『Unique Magic』

『Antidote Magic』
『Barrier Magic』

Antidote Magic

Magic

Technique

Rank

Barrier Magic

Magic

Technique

Rank

Barrier

Magic Shield

Elementary

Unique Magic

Magic

Technique

Effect

Unique

Nuclear Explosion

Unofficial God-class magic (stated by Orsted) that Rudeus created in a desperate attempt during his fight against Orsted. By focusing a tremendous amount of magic power at a designated area, he creates a huge explosion around his pinpointed target and leaves behind a mushroom-like cloud similar to a nuclear explosion. During the second confrontation with Orsted, he managed to destroy a village with this magic. Even with Orsted opening the First Dragon Gate to tremendously lower its power, the explosion was still packed with power similar to Laplace. It is hinted that this is a Fire-type magic.

Unique

Disturb Magic

It is a unique magic that Rudeus learns after observing Orsted in their first fight and works by interfering with the magic of the opponent disturbing it thus preventing it from working. This is a very rare and difficult technique as Sylphiette, who is a talented mage in her own right, had a lot of trouble learning it.

Unique

Dry Steaming

Dry Steaming is a melded magic of fire and wind originally developed by Rudeus to dry wet clothes with a risk of damaging the fabric.

Unique

Explosive Stone Cannon

It is a variation of Stone Cannon originally developed by Rudeus. The stone is hollow thereby exploding at the point of contact.

Unique

Electric

Realizing that 『Lightning』 might be a bit overkill as a single target spell, Rudeus weakened the King-class Water magic. Rudeus was able to use Voiceless incantation to create a miniature thundercloud, compressing it, and designating a target for 『Lightning』. In order to distinguish it from the normal overpowered spell, he named it 『Electric』. The Electric strike is hard to avoid and can numb the nervous system, making it a very useful spell against people who can wear Touki. It is effective against the Immortal Demon Race as demonstrated in the battle against
Atofe
.

Unique

Light Spirits

Rudeus can make a light spirit scroll and use them to summon bright light spirits as a source of light.

Unique

Howling Magic

Howling is a type of magic that can locate or paralyze enemies by using sound as a medium, but Rudeus can only use it to surprise or scare opponents. He learned it from
Gustav Dedorudia
.

Fighting Style

『Sword Techniques』

Intermediate-ranked
Sword God Style

Elementary-ranked
North God Style

Elementary-ranked
Water God Style

Since Rudeus cannot make use of Battle Aura, he cannot rise to Advanced ranked Sword Techniques.

『
Saint Dragon Battle Aura
』

Saint Dragon Battle Aura is a fighting style that was created by Dragon God
Urupen
, who was considered to be the weakest Dragon God due to having the lowest magical capacity ever and rose to become the strongest with this fighting style. It involves defeating an opponent using the minimal amount of magical power. It is described as a fighting style by Rudeus that combines magic arts and the real world martial art Wushu. Rudeus is currently being taught how to use this fighting form by Orsted. This fighting technique is the best fighting style for Rudeus due to it's great compatibility with the 『Magic Armor』, making the 『Magic Armor』 performance more potent, efficient, and useful during combat. It should be noted that it is a fighting style and not a type of battle aura as Rudeus lacks the ability to use actual battle aura.

『Tactics』

He has been noted by others to be a battle genius. During his first fight with Paul, he was smart enough to trap Paul's leg to restrict his movements. During his time as an adventurer, he was known for his skill with Quagmire and trapping opponents with earth magic before attacking. After training with Orsted, he became more aware of his tactics and was able to perform the strategies more efficiently since he was conscious of them. In the case that he is trapped by a high level barrier magic that restricts his magic, he will use the Manatite stone to destroy the seal and use a combination of Quagmire, Mist, and Electric to slow down or disable his opponents before using a summoning scroll to summon his trump card, the Magic armor MK I, to defeat his enemies should the need arise for the fire power. Taking stories and legends from his previous world, he was also able to come up with a strategy to defeat a hydra that could regenerate its heads.

Equipment

『Arrogant Water Dragon King』 (Aqua Heartia)

An expensive staff gifted to him by Eris on his 10th Birthday.

The material of the wand is made from a rough and bony wood that comes from a tree called 『Elder Torrent』, that grows in the large forest of the Eastern region of the Mills Continent. The Wand will







become a subspecies after it drinks from the Faeries' Spring. The tip of the staff is adorned with a large Magical stone that is the size of a fist that comes from a stray dragon located in the Begaritt's continent. The maker is from the Asura kingdom palace's Magic team, a wand-maker(Rod Director) called Chein Procyon. A wand's rank is determined by the wood and the Magic rock, both of which are A ranked materials. The Magic Stone alone is at least worth over 100 Asuran Gold Coins.

The wand has a lot of sentimental value to Rudeus, as Ruijerd was able to see how important it was to Rudeus and convinced him to not sell it so that they could take Ruijerd to the Mills Continent the legal route; instead, Ruijerd agreed to enlist the services of a smuggler even though they would be getting involved with people who would harm children, which is against Ruijerd's warrior code. Rudeus commonly calls it his friend and has a few nicknames for it. Although his power has outgrown the staff's abilities, he will still occasionally use it during important battles. The Staff is normally kept in his room as a decoration due to Rudeus who usually uses 『Shotgun Cannon』 as his main weapon.

Arrogant Water Dragon King is given to
Lara Greyrat
 when she leaves the house along with Leo.

Magic amplification coefficient:

Water Magic:
 5 times

Earth Magic:
 3 times

Wind Magic:
 3 times

Fire Magic:
 2 times

『Mana Absorbing Stone』

A stone made from the
Manatite Hydra
's body. From Rudeus' testing of the stone, there is a front and back of the stone. When mana is applied to the back of the stone, a high pitched sound would ring out and the front of the stone will emit magic canceling wave that is similar to 『Ran Ma』. The stone does not actually absorb mana and its magic breakdown power is similar to the Disturb Magic; however, the stone also requires an almost equal amount of magic power to negate attacking magic. But, the stone is more effective than 『Ran Ma』 due to its capability to cancel completed magic. Magically created objects like dolls that have their mana stabilized will not be destroyed by the waves, but magic attacks that do not have their magic stabilized will be destroyed. Magic Circles will not be destroyed by the stone, but the barriers created will. By inserting the stone into the 『Zariff's Prosthetic arm』, it can be an effective tool at the cost of magic-less effective from that arm.

『Zariff's Prosthetic Arm』

From Zanoba's research of the doll left by the previous owner of Rudeus' house, Zanoba with the help of Cliff were able to create an artificial prosthetic arm. With the chant, "『Oh Earth, become thine Arm.』", the magic tool can be activated, and can be deactivated with the chant 『Oh Arm, return to Earth』. It can also allow the wearer to feel tactile feedback from the fingers and even has the strength to restrain Zanoba's Miko Power. The arm can also fly out as a Rocket Punch. It was used as the replacement of Rudeus' left hand that was lost in the fight against the Manatite Hydra and continued to function as a Rocket Punch gauntlet, after all of his limbs were restored by Orsted's King Class Healing Magic, until its capabilities were replaced by the second version black 『Magic Armor』. He still wears them as gauntlets and he has one for both hands.

『Dragon Tribe's Robe』

It is a grey robe worn by Great Sage Titiana 1,000 years ago. It is made of the Death Adder Rat's skin and was sewn together using a thread imbued with magic. It has considerable magic resistance and is highly blade proof. The weight of the wearer is reduced by half and it is possible to move like the wind.
Rudeus
 received it from
Orsted
 in volume 17 before going to
Asura Kingdom
 to assist
Ariel
 to become the queen.

『Dragon God's Armlet』

Its crest was engraved by Dragon God with the ability to block
Hitogami
's future foresight from seeing the future of the wearer, effectively blocking Hitogami's view of Rudeus's immediate surroundings.
Orsted
 gave it to Rudeus after they started working together.

『Magic Armor』

Magic Armor 『MK. I』

The prototype created under the joint cooperation of Zanoba and Cliff. It’s height is a little less than 3 meters. The right hand was affixed with a Stone Gatling Cannon and the left hand was affixed with a shield and a Magic Absorption Stone.

Although its mana consumption was quite high, it was considered to hold defensive and offensive power similar to that of the Seven Great World Powers, It was specifically created in order to fight Dragon God Orsted, though it was still kept in use after that. It was destroyed by the Fighting God during the Battle of Biheiril Kingdom.

Magic Armor 『MK. II』

It was a complete set that could be separated into arm parts, leg parts, and torso part. It was a jet-black armor and helmet. A smaller version of the『MK. I』.

If worn, it could provide physical ability similar to that of a Saint Ranked swordsman.

Magic Armor 『MK. Zero』

The decisive battle weapon of Rudeus created for the Battle of Biheiril Kingdom. It is a stronger version of the『MK. I』, although it consumes double the mana.

Magic Armor 『MK. III』

The Magic Armor used by Rudeus during his last years. Its height was a little more than 2 metres and its ability was the same as the『MK. I』.

This Magic Armor became the basis for the mass-production of the All-Purpose Magic Armor Series later on.

『Summoning Scrolls』

Each scroll has a one time use and can be used to summon the 『Magic Armor Mk I 』. He also is able to create scrolls that link to hidden locations, in the event he needs to make a quick escape.

『Gatling Gun』

A weapon that Rudeus had Roxy with one of Roxy's friends developed, after taking Hitogami's suggestion to create a magic tool that shoots magic that only Rudeus can handle, for the fight against Orsted. This weapon is able to fire off 10 of his standard 『Stone Cannon』 per second. Rudeus only uses this weapon in conjunction when wearing the 『Magic Armor Mk I 』. Rudeus defeated
Atofe
 using this weapon by three steps:

In the first step, Atofe's armor was smashed into several small pieces.

In the second step, Atofe's shoulder was torn to pieces.

In the third step, Atofe's upper half of the body became full of holes that were blown off and separated from her lower half.

After Atofe realize that 『Magic Armor Mk I 』 wasn't the Fighting God Armor, she pointed out the difference in color and that the 『Gatling Gun』 didn't exist at that time.

『Shotgun Cannon』

A weapon that Rudeus developed after taking Orsted's suggestion about the Gatling gun to make it fire multiple stone cannons in one shot to counter Water God Style practitioner. This weapon is currently replacing 『Arrogant Water Dragon King』 as his main weapon when not wearing 『Magic Armor Mk Il』. Rudeus stated that this weapon is a very user-friendly weapon.

『Lithograph Stone』

Based off of the seven powers stone created by Technique God, Orsted created a stone that would allow long-range communication through writing on the Large Stone. Anything written on the main stone will appear on the sub-stones. Having a main and a sub-stone for the other person's main stone will allow for long-range communication. The stone also requires a bit of magic to actually use so it is not a widespread tool.

『Scroll Vernier』

The second Roxy made machine. A tool that was mounted on the back of the MK II. It has a bulky steampunk look to it that carries folded scrolls ready for activation. If a button near the waist is pressed with magic power, a corresponding slot with a scroll is automatically activated. There are 5 slots by each hand with a total of 10 types of scrolls.

『The Bone Ring of Laxus』

The Ring was given to him by Death God Randolph to show to Kishirika to gain favor. Kishirika told Rudeus to keep it since it may be useful. The Ring was originally owned by Death God Laxus who created the ring to kill the
Dark King Vita
. The ring works by using the death of the person the ring's holder relied on the most to break the illusion. The spiritual form of the Ring is a dirty black skeleton with a crown. The ring would not activate without the Ring's holder having experienced such a death. For Rudeus, that death was Paul's and an image of Paul's death appeared in each dream showed by the Vita. The ring caused Dark King Vita to self destruct and die. The ring broke after fulfilling its purpose.

『Atofe-hand』

A gift from
Atoferatofe
 given to Rudeus, a wooden box that contains flesh from Atofe. After getting both of his arms cut off by North God
Kalman III
 and former Sword God
Gal Farion
, Atofe-hand attached itself to Rudeus. It looks obsidian black and is hard as stone, Rudeus describes it as stronger than Zariff's Prosthetic Arm.

『Wooden Pendant』

Wooden Pendant in the Anime
Wooden Pendant in the Manga
1/2

A pendant hand made by Sylphiette for Rudeus' 10th birthday at the suggestion of her
father
 that is a good luck charm handed down in their family then
Lilia
 is suppose to send it to Rudeus but the
Teleport Incident
 occured.
 Lilia holds on to the pendant until Rudeus rescues her and Aisha in the Shirone Kingdom but didn't tell him it was made by Syphiette and when
Elinalise Dragonroad
 sees the pendant she shows a matching emblem engraved on her sword. Rudeus later realizes that Sylphiette made the pendant when they were at the Forest of Hail.

References