This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

Information

Chronology

Relationships

Powers and Abilities

Gallery

Mushoku Tensei

Volume 1 - Infancy Period





Volume 1 Cover



Reincarnates into the
Human World
 as a new born child with all his memories and knowledge from his previous life preserved.

Spends the first few years of his life absorbing as much knowledge as he could about the world, managing to learn both the
Human

language
 and how to read its characters.

Resolves to live in the fullest on this new world and new leash at life

Is greatly feared by
Lilia
 who believes the child is posessed since he didn't cry at all when he was a baby. Due to her bust size, he would often stare at her with a perverted grin, and that disgusted her.

Begins to practice
Magic
 in secret through the book of magics, one of the three books in the first
Greyrat House
 in
Buena Village
.

Discovers Silent Casting and how to raise his magical power or
Mana
 after repeated practice of
Water Ball
 that initially he can do 3 times a day but further increases the day after.

Conceals from his parents that he is practicing Magic as he does not know how Magicians are view and he might be treated as a heretic and burned

At age 2, he accidentally blows a hole in a wall of the house after casting
Water Cannon
, an intermediate water magic  which shocks
Zenith
 and
Paul
 but realizes Rudeus is a "genius"
Magician
 and wants to hire a tutor for Rudeus.

Paul initially getting a tutor due to their agreement that if their child is a boy, he would be a
Swordsman
 but after a suggestion from Lilia, they agree that he will be trained both in magic and the sword

Becomes Water Saint Ranked
Roxy Migurdia
's student at age 3 who she initially believes she is hired by doting parents but agrees training him after seeing his shortened chant of Water Ball and learns that he can also use Voiceless Incantation

Is trained in Magic by Roxy in the morning, in swordsmanship by Paul in the afternoon and in general lessons like history by Roxy at night

Is warned by Roxy about the
Superd Tribe
, a spear wielding
Demon Race
 with green hair and a ruby-like stone on their forehead that killed friends and foes alike during the
Laplace War

Due to his previous life trauma, Rudeus is afraid of going outside of the gate of their house

At age 5, he is taken outside by Roxy for his graduation test and becomes a Water Saint Ranked Magician after being able to successfully cast
Cumulonimbus

Roxy gives Rudeus her
Migurd
 Pendant and leaves the Greyrat House, while Rudeus begins to call her Shishou (Master) in gratitude for helping him overcome his fear of going outside

Meets
Sylphiette
 and protects her from bullies, they become friends then later begins teaching her Magic and other general lessons

--To be revised--

Age 7: He realizes how his magic growth has become stagnant after learning that Roxy has become a <<Water King>> ranked magician from one of Roxy's letters. He decided that he needed to attend
Ranoa Magic Academy
, but Sylphiette overheard this and cried that she didn't want him to leave her, so he decided to bring her with him. He asked Paul if he would help pay for their tuition, but Paul declined, stating that the tuition for the both of them would be too much. Rudeus countered this by saying he would be willing to work to earn Sylphie's tuition, since his family couldn't afford to send the both of them. Paul agreed to this, and stated that he would try to find him a job.
Ghislaine
 then arrives by carriage and is greeted by his family, at which point Paul asks Rudeus how he would feel if he were told not to see Sylphiette anymore. Shortly after, a fight ensues between Rudeus and Paul over this, and Rudeus is knocked out. Rudeus then wakes up in a carriage and reads a letter from Paul, stating that he is to be sent to his
uncles
 home with Ghislaine to become a tutor for
Eris
, his cousin, and that he is prohibited from returning home or sending letters for 5 years.

Volume 2 - Juvenile Period - Home Teacher Chapter

When he was 7 years old, he started tutoring/taming <<Mad Dog>> Eris to make her know mathematics, science , language and magic. He succeeded and established a good relationship with her. He also taught Ghislaine, and Paul also entrusted Ghislaine to continue Rudeus' swordsmanship training while he was away from home. Sometime before Rudeus' 10th birthday, he was also shown to have learned 3 new languages.







Age 10: On his birthday, he received his trusted partner Aqua Heartia, a very high quality magic staff that Eris had her family make for him. After his birthday party, he gets teleported to Magic Continent with Eris.

Volume 3 - Juvenile Period - Adventurer Chapter

He was one of the victims of Metastasis Event, and it teleported him








to the Demon Continent together with Eris, and for the first time, saw
Hitogami
 (Human God) in his dreams, who advised him to rely on
Ruijerd
 and help him accomplish his goal. He met Ruijerd, a member of the Superd Race, and befriended him. Together with Ruijerd and Eris, they formed a party <<Dead End>>, as adventurers to improve both Ruijerd's reputation, and the Superd as a whole. They became well-known throughout the Demon Continent. Rudeus obtained the nickname <<The Owner of Dead End>> or <<Kennel Master>>. (Subtitle/Anime only)

Volume 4 - Juvenile Period - Voyage Chapter








Later, Rudeus met
Demon Empress Kishirika
 and attained the demon eyes of foresight, following Hitogami's advice. These eyes allowed him to see few seconds into the future, and he used them to defeat Eris in a sparring match.

While on the ship to the
Millis Kingdom
, Eris got extremely sea sick and he had to take care of her, all while resisting his urge to take advantage of Eris' weakened state sexually. Oppai Sennin, the image of a wise old hermit, often appears in his mind when he is tempted by breasts. He also took care of his 'business' and became a sage on the ship in order to prevent himself from attacking Eris.






Rudeus in all of his glory



Immediately after arriving from the sea voyage, he and Eris went to retrieve Ruijerd, but due to the child kidnappings by the smugglers, they could not let it go unpunished and had to rescue the beast children. After rescuing the beast children, Rudeus had to separate from the party so that he could rescue the Sacred Beast on a cat girl's request while Ruijerd escorted the children to safety. As a result of a misunderstanding, Rudeus was incapacitated by
Gyes
, and taken to the village where he was stripped naked and placed in prison.

After a few days in prison, where he was kept naked, Rudeus got a new cell mate
Geese
, and he greeted him in all of his full glory, and asked for Geese's fur vest since it was cold not wearing clothes. The fur vest turned out to have bugs, which he then disposed of. As Rudeus was still itchy from the bugs, he asked Geese to scratch his back for him. As he was getting his back scratched, they were interrupted by the arrival of Eris and Ruijerd who saw a scene with Rudeus full naked and his ass sticking out while he was being massaged. After being freed, Rudeus spent a few days in the village.

Volume 5 - Juvenile Period - Reunion Chapter








After a sea voyage, he reunited with his father in Millis Kingdom. Their reunion was violent, and his younger sister,
Norn
, started to hate Rudeus, because of the confrontation that the two had. Rudeus and Paul made up after Geese had a talk with Paul.

Volume 6 - Juvenile Period - Homecoming Chapter

After arriving in Central Continent, he found out the whereabouts of his other younger sister
Aisha
, and her mother Lilia. He rescued them, and shortly after he left, he encountered Dragon God
Orsted
. << Dead End>> fought together against Orsted, but lost. Only Rudeus was able to make a small scratch on Ostred, with Rudeus almost dying in the process. He lost consciousness and only survived due to Orsted's companion,
Nanohoshi
, speaking up. After she did, Orsted cast a healing spell on him and brought him back from the brink of death. When he awoke, Orsted and his companion had already left, with Eris breaking down from her own perceived inability to protect Rudeus when it mattered most.






Eris seduces Rudeus



Age 13: Lost his virginity to Eris.

After finding out what happened to Eris' family, he became her only family and spent a night in Fittoa. Afterwards she left him while leaving a message saying they were not suited for each other right now. The beginning of a misunderstanding that broke his heart and his pride as man, which crippled his "son".

He also was able to eat rice in this chapter, something he hasn't had since his previous life.

He regained his precious artifact, the holy relic of Roxy, his God of the religion he created, called Roxyism.

Volume 7 - Youth Period - School Entry Chapter

A few years later, he was known as Rudeus of Quagmire. He tried to spread his name to find his still missing
mother
 as he felt that  if he made his name known, then she could find him. His fame spread through the whole of the Central Continent, but he had a few problems.
Hitogami
 told him if he goes to <<
Ranoa Magic Academy
>> it would solve his problem of impotency, and advised him to research the cause of Metastasis event.








He enlisted into the academy as "Special Student" and managed to completely own <<Silent Fitts>> (
Sylphiette
) and he made friends with other special students:
Zanoba
,
Cliff
,
Nanahoshi
,
Pursena
 and
Linia
. He even managed to beat a demon lord in a duel with one rock bullet, making him the top of Magic Academy.

Volume 8 - Youth Period - Special Student Chapter

He began to teach Zanoba on how to create dolls, since Zanoba did not have the magic power necessary nor the ability to use voiceless incantation. Given the problems of Zanoba's Miko power making it difficult to have the dexterity needed to do the delicate work required to make the dolls, Rudeus decided to have Zanoba get a slave that Rudeus would then train to make the dolls. Rudeus then had Zanoba buy Julie, a dwarf girl, as a slave to learn doll making.

After finding out that Rinia and Pursena had broken the doll made by him in the image of his god, Rudeus hunted the two down and captured them. They were stripped and kept that way until they repented.

Volume 9 - Youth Period - Sylphiette Chapter

He discovered that Silent Fitts was a girl and after a lot of effort on Fitts side Rudeus was finally able to realize that Fitts was actually Sylphy all along. He took her virginity after she cured him of his ED.

Volume 10 - Youth Period - Newlyweds Chapter

He bought a House that contained a moving doll. He stayed in the house to eliminate the demon that "Haunts" the house with Zanoba and Cliff. He had the house renovated.

Volume 11 - Youth Period - Younger Sisters Chapter

He experienced rose-colored school days and his 2 younger sisters moved into his house as with Aisha becoming his maid. He had some problems with Norn as she hated him initially, but solved them. Afterwards he found out that the rescue party for his mother encountered difficulties and he wanted to go help but Sylphiette was pregnant and the trip would have taken 2 years so he would have missed the birth of his child. Also Human God warned him that he'd regret it if he went. With encouragement from Norn and Elinalise he resolved himself to go and ignore the Human God's advice for the first time. Luckily before he departed Nanahoshi gave him the light spirit scrolls as well as the location for a teleportation magic circle to the Begaritto Continent that could be used, he used teleportation circles to travel there extremely fast making his trip there in one and a half month where it could have taken him 2 years.

Volume 12 - Youth Period -

Labyrinth Chapter

Rudy and Elinalise traveled to the Begaritto Continent to assist Paul in rescuing Zenith. They were able to make the trip faster than normal by teleporting using a nearby ruin. Along the way they encountered a Succubus and rescued a Caravan.

He rescued Roxy using a <<Water Emperor>> class magic Absolute Zero, although at the time he thought it was simply a lower class magic but more refined. He fought a Hydra that was immune to magic that is guarding his mother. As the hydra was about to be defeated, it went on a rampage and stated attacking on Rudeus. Paul kicked Rudues to save him from the hydra's rampage. He survived in exchange for his left hand and his father's life. And only to find out that his mother was incapable---losing her memories and expressions. Due to his depression, Roxy tried to cheer him up by having sex with him and was later accepted to his family as his second wife. His first child, Lucy, was born.

Volume 13 - Young Man Period - Everyday Chapter

After visiting Zanoba upon his return, he gains a prosthetic arm[Zariff Prosthetic Arm] from Zanoba research. He begins to teach Norn about swordsmanship. He becomes a <<Water King Class Magician>> after being taught [Lighting], the king ranked water spell by Roxy and manages to compress it's power due to [Lighting being an Overkill, he develop a smaller version of it named[Electric]. He marries Roxy and celebrates his sister's 10th birthday at the same time. He and Nanahoshi succeeded the 4th phase of their experiment: to summon a seedless watermelon from his world.

Volume 14 - Young Man Period - Summoning Chapter

He fought Atofe while he was at the Demon Continent searching for medicine to save Nanahoshi. He was visited by his Future Self who tells him not to trust the Man-god.

Volume 15 - Young Man Period - Human God Chapter

He read the diary given to him by his future self and was forced by Hitogami to fight Orsted, the Dragon God.

Rudeus proposes to Eris after ending a short duel between the two and declaring he still harbored feelings for her to which she agrees and they consummate their marriage right that night.

Volume 16 - Young Man Period - Kingdom Chapter

He starts working with Orsted in order to make Ariel the Queen.

Volume 17 - Young Man Period - Asura Kingdom Chapter

Rudeus accompanies Ariel to the Asura Kingdom capital city Ars in order for her to safely become the next Asura Kingdom's queen.

Volume 18 - Young Man Period - Subordinates Chapter

He buys Rinia's freedom from slave traders and has her work off her debt as a servant of the Greyrat Household. Pursena also becomes a servant of the Greyrat Household in order to redeem herself after Rudeus went to the Great Forest in order to resolve the crisis of the Dorudia Tribe in a letter about the disappearance of the Sacred Beast, Leo.

Volume 19 - Young Man Period - Zanoba Chapter

He, along with Roxy and Ginger traveled to Shirone with Zanoba to help him after Zanoba was called back to his home to defend it from invaders. He was involved in his first war and directly killed humans with his magic. He fought against Death God. He failed to stop Pax from committing suicide. His son, Ars, was born.

Volume 20.5 - Intermission Chapter

He attends Cliff and Zanoba's graduation.

He goes to the Asura Kingdom capital city Ars with Eris, Roxy, Slyphy and his daughter Lucy. Zanoba and Julie also traveled with him.

He holds a celebration for Norn and Aisha's 15th Birthday. He gives Norn a doll, that he made using his magic, that looks like Paul.

He graduated from Ranoa Magic Academy and submitted the teaching method of voiceless incantation as his thesis to gain C rank in the Magic Guild. He also established a subdivision of his Mercenary Company, a branch office of the Zanoba Shop, and factor for the production of goods in the Asura Kingdom with the help of Ariel's assistants. He receives a letter from his mother's family, the Latreia House, asking for Zenith, Aisha, and Norn to come to Milishion.

He starts his journey to Milishion with Cliff, Aisha, and Zenith. Sylphy is now pregnant again with Rudeus' child. He defeats goblins while thinking about how pitiful the goblins were living on a continent that hates magic race and demons.

Volume 20 - Young Man Period - Cliff Chapter

Rudeus, Cliff, Aisha, and Zenith arrive in Milishion. They meet Gisu after Zenith stands up in the moving carriage and points at him. They head towards Cliff's house in the Religious District and Rudeus along with Aisha give Cliff help in cleaning the house which was very dusty. Afterwards they ate dinner with the leftover food.

Rudeus takes Zenith to the Latreia House along with Aisha. He tells Aisha to sit down with Zenith while they are waiting since they are family and Aisha should be treated as a guest as well. When his grandmother Claire arrives, he greets her, but he is ignored and Claire heads straight to see Zenith and has her physician, Andel Berkeley, take a look at her condition all while ignoring Rudeus. They angrily question why Aisha, a mere maid, was sitting down and then Rudeus explained that he told her to since she was his sister. Claire explained that people are treated based on their clothing and that Rudeus was ignored since many people have claimed to be her grandchild and she didn't know Rudeus. Claire then asks for Rudeus to prove his identity. Rudeus told Claire that he has brought Zenith and Aisha and that he has the letter. Since it wasn't enough proof, Claire told Rudeus that he could not be considered a member of the Latreia House with just that. Rudeus did not mind since he was there as the head of the Greyrat Household in Sharia. Rudeus explains that even though he has inherited the kinship of a large part of the four feudal lords of Asura, he did not have the rank of nobility. He also explained that even if he held a high rank that bowing to his grandmother as a greeting after meeting her for the first time would be a natural thing to do. Rudeus also explains that even apart from his rank of nobility, he is personal friends with the newly crowned Asura Queen Ariel and is the subordinate of 『Dragon God』 Orsted who is ranked second of the seven major world powers. He also warned them not to make light of who he is because of his connections. After Rudeus proved his social position, Claire apologized for previously ignoring him. Rudeus told them that he has tried everything to help Zenith's condition and Claire calls Sharia a village-like place since compared to Milishion it was not as advanced in Healing magic. But Rudeus retorted by saying that even if Sharia was not as advanced in Healing Magic, he was able to have Orsted who knew all magic and Perugius who was knowledgeable in summoning magic help him. Claire then asked about Norn and Rudeus told Claire that Norn was currently studying in Ranoa Magic University and was at the top as the Student Council President. Claire told Rudeus in a commanding tone to bring Norn after her graduation and that a suitable person would not be found in a backwater country like the Ranoa Kingdom and that she would choose a suitable person for marriage if a suitable. That conflicted with Rudeus' ideology of giving Norn the freedom to pick her own path, but he told Claire that he would take responsibility for Norn to keep the peace. Rudeus answered many medical questions posed by Andel and Aisha answered any questions that Rudeus did not have the answer to. Since Zenith appeared younger than her actual age and was still able to have children, Claire wanted to have Zenith remarry even if she were to get many divorces and they were essentially treating Zenith as a tool to create children and not as a person which infuriated Rudeus. They also told Rudeus to cut his ties with Cliff and when Rudeus would not do so, they told them to leave, but leave Zenith with the Latreia House. After Claire expressed her desire to use Zenith as a tool to give birth and have her remarry and referring to Zenith as a thing and not a person, Rudeus blanked out and all he remembers is yelling. When Aisha called out to him as if cheering him on, Rudeus' mind was brought back. Claire attempted to get some guards to take Zenith, but Rudeus knocked them away and left the house with Zenith and Aisha. Rudeus realized he was hungry and then decided to head back to Cliff's house.

He meets the Miko who was saved by Eris long ago. His mother gets kidnapped by Claire. He gets attacked by the Order of the Temple and in the confusion he winds up kidnapping
Miko
. He returns to use Miko as a bargaining chip to get Zenith back. He explains his side of the story and they sentence Claire to ten years in prison and while they were going to take Claire, Zenith stops them and slaps Rudeus. Miko explains Claire's side of the story and Rudeus and the Latreia family reconcile. He recruits Miko into Orsted's camp and gives her a bracelet with a Dragon God symbol and a summoning scroll for a guardian after Miko reveals to them that Zenith never actually lost her memories or her mind and that Zenith was of dreaming since she was constantly using her Miko power of Telepathy. Gisu had Aisha give Rudeus a letter with Gisu admitting that he has been an apostle for Hitogami the entire time and next time they meet he will have properly gathered forces to defeat Rudeus. Rudeus feeling paranoid that he might be assassinated since Gisu could have easily come at him or his family with a poison knife while they were sleeping so Eris came to guard Rudeus. Before they went back home, they visited Miko so that Miko could finally meet Eris again. Eris did not remember Miko, but Miko said that she wanted to become like Eris and then Eris made a wood sword for Miko to practice sword swings with.

Side Story: The Truth of Santa Claus

Rudeus plan to give Lucy a gift during a fictional Christmas as a Santa Claus. But, in the end Orsted came and personally give Lucy and present as Santa Claus.

Volume 22 - Young Man Period - Organization Chapter

Rudeus arrives back home and gives Lilia and the rest of the family a summary of what has happened at Milishion. Rudeus meets Zanoba and they talk about improving the Magic Armor. Roxy asks Rudeus if she could help with the armor and Rudeus welcomes her help and notes to himself that if she was a part of the team, the Armor could be improved 100 times better. He later meets with Orsted and they discuss about how to gather forces to defeat Gisu and prevent certain pieces from becoming enemies.

Rudeus later goes to the Ouryuu Kingdom and meets with Death God Randolph to recruit him, but was turned down due to him needing to protect Benedict and Pax Jr. He later meets with the King of the Ouryuu Kingdom and was able to save little Pax from future threats by the Ouryuu Kingdom giving Pax Jr. or having assassins potentially aiming for him by the Kingdom by letting Rudeus deal with any issues that may arise between the Shirone Kingdom and Little Pax. Rudeus also able to further other parts of his agenda as well during the meeting using his connections and later on after meeting Randolph again, he was given a ring that would allow Rudeus to get a favor from Kishirika.

Rudeus travels to the Demon Continent with Eris and Roxy to gain Atofe as an ally. Passing through the front gate peacefully, they meet with the Demon King and offer gifts of alcohol. One is a hundred year old alcohol from the Asura Kingdom given to them by Ariel and the other is an extremely rare one that makes Atofe extremely excited. That rare alcohol <<Dragon God Jewel Spirit>>(Aleschneil) is a type only made by the dragon tribe and was given to them by Orsted. The last time Atofe had her hands on the alcohol was when it was gifted to her by Urupen for her wedding with Carl or Kalman I the first North God. She then had a duel with Rudeus and party. Atofe surrendered after Rudeus attacked with the Gatling gun from the Magic Armor MK I. He gain the <<Hero>> title for defeating Atofe. They all then had a banquet.

Two months after recruiting Atofe, while recruiting many of the other demon lords quite easily due to both hearing Rudeus as a <<Hero>> who made Atofe surrendered and the outrageous reputation of Atofe, Roxy requested to visit her home town and Rudeus took the opportunity to bring Lara as well so that they could all travel to Roxy's hometown to visit Roxy's parents and tell them of their marriage.

Nanahosi tried to return home with newly created magic circle, but ended up in failure, and then going into a deep sleep.

Rudeus learns from Kishirika that Gisu is in a forest.

Volume 23 - Young Man Period - The Decisive Battle Chapter

Rudeus is in a meeting where they make plans to corner Gisu.

Rudeus goes into the forest and finds out that there's a Supard village hiding within it. Rudeus fights Vita, wins, but in return, the Supards illness hastens causing the Supards who are sick to collapse. To find the cure Rudeus contacts many of his allies but to no avail until Cliff teleports to the village and uses his demon eye to figure out what the illness is and how to cure it. Cliff uses the Sokasu grass (the same thing Nanahoshi used to slow down the Drain Syndrome) which had the Supard race get rid of the remaining Vita(as Vita had been stopping the sickness from getting worse however died as a result of fighting Rudeus) in their system(Vita's real form is a blue slime//had to crap the slime out of their system). In order for the subjugation to no longer go into the forest and try to fight the demons (the invisible wolves), Rudeus apeals to the king to which the king hands over 2 soldiers in order to see if what Rudeus says is true. Rudeus guides the 2 soldiers to the Supard village and they said that they would like to tell the King of the truth. When going back, on the bridge that Rudeus made, the 2 soldiers take off their disguise rings and show who they are (Kalman III and Gull Farion. They slice off both of Rudeus's arms and he falls from the bridge, to where the Earth Dragon is.

Saved by Doga. Grew black arms from black lump of meat that came from black box given by Atofe.

He defeats North God Kalman III and becomes one of the "Seven Great World Powers".

On Ogre Island while celebrating peace Gisu came with Badigadi with his Golden Armor to attack. Rudeus with support from friends and family was able to get to his trump card the MK-0, and fought Badigadi with it.

Volume 24 - Young Man Period - The Final Chapter

Rudeus/Future dies at the age of 74.

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Mushoku Tensei Sequel

Despite the story of Mushoku Tensei ending with Rudeus' death at age 74 in the year 481, several story threats remained unresolved and will likely be taken up in the planned sequel series:

Orsted's
 mission to kill
Hitogami
, who is still alive at the time of Rudeus' death.

The revival of the Demon God
Laplace
, who was said to reincarnate around the time the sequel series seems to be taking place, and
Perugius'
 quest to kill him.

The fate of
Nanahoshi Shizuka
, who chose to be put into suspended animation to await the arrival of her friend,
Shinohara Akito
, so they might go back to Earth together using the teleportation magic circle she and Rudeus developed.

The destiny of Rudeus and
Roxy's
 eldest daugther,
Lara
, who is said to be the Hero who, together with
Leo
, would save the world from an unknown crisis.

Elinalise's
 mysterious past.