This article
lacks information
 and requires expansion. Please
expand this page
 to include missing information to help improve the article.

Information

Relationships

Gallery

We were victims of Laplace's plot! The Superd are no race of monstrous beasts!

Ruijerd, to
Rudeus

Ruijerd Superdia
 (
ルイジェルド・スペルディア
,

Ruijerudo Superudia
)
 is the former leader of the Superd's Warrior group who once served under
Laplace
 with unwavering loyalty. He was accompanying
Rudeus
 and
Eris
 but left in search of his people. Under manipulation, Ruijerd killed his son, who was able to free him from Laplace's control. Following the annihlation of his species, Ruijerd travels the world to dissolve the stigma against the Superd race.

Appearance

Ruijerd is tall for an average
Superd
, muscular build, handsome and shared their distinctive features such as porcelain white skin and emerald green hair with a red gemstone on his forehead. He wears a brown tribal vest that only covers his back and sides, fully displaying his frontal torso and arms.

Moreover, he is distinguished by his smooth oval chin and a long scar that trails from the right top corner of his forehead across his glabella to the left end of his cheek.

When Rudeus bleached his hair, it became a different color. However, Ruijerd later shaved his head bald and wore a headband to cover the gemstone on his forehead.

He now wears the necklace gifted to him by Rudeus around his neck.

Personality

"A warrior protects children and treasures their comrades"

Despite having a scary demeanor, Ruijerd is very kind and fatherly. He always helps children no matter what the circumstances, and would go berserk when people try to hurt them.

Ruijerd follows a very strict warrior's code of honor that he would go to extreme lengths to fulfill his promises. He is also described as rather stubborn, having a very adamant sense of justice that he won't tolerate even minor crimes during his debut regardless of how it may look like to those surrounding him which also causes misunderstandings of his intention.

Background

Ruijerd was born to a pair of Superd warriors in a town in the Babinosu Region. Being a talented and hardworking warrior, he was elected as the war chief of the Superd warrior group that served as
Laplace
's elite force in just a few decades, an achievement that's almost unheard of. He also married Luwelia, a female tribe member that took care of him like an elder sister since childhood, and gave birth to his son Luiweld
.

However, Laplace betrayed their loyalty by ordering them to take up the cursed pitch black Devil's spears into battle in favor of their birth spears, which put them into a mesmeric frenzy that caused them to mindlessly slaughter those around them, including their own family. After giving his son a fatal wound, Ruiweld managed to destroy the Devil's spear and finally wake Ruijerd from his stupor to realize the truth.

In the moment of despair from his actions, Ruijerd had considered committing suicide to atone for his sins, but ultimately decided to exact vengeance on Laplace for the cruel fate befallen his people along with everyone of the warrior group. After several years of hiding and biding his time carefully, he finally got his revenge when he turned the tide of the decisive battle between Laplace and the three heroes, by striking Laplace's weak point
.

Although Laplace was defeated, there was no way to change the things that had already transpired, and the horrible reputation of the
Superd Tribe
 had already taken root which caused even stories about the Superd that kills friends and enemies alike to frighten children have circulated even to the
Central Continent
. After exacting his revenge, he now has a goal of restoring the honor and fixing the reputation that the Superd race has.

Plot






Rudeus and Eris meeting Ruijerd



Ruijerd meets
Rudeus
 and
Eris
 who are transported to the
Demon Continent
 in the aftermath of the
Teleport Incident
. He later brings them to a
Migurd
 Village where he tells Rudeus of his past with the latter volunteering to help restore the honor of the Superd. Ruijerd, Rudeus and Eris eventually forms the party
Dead End
 and joins the
Adventure Guild
 to use the money they earn to travel back to the Central Continent where Ruijerd is given the alias "Watch Dog".

"I'm sure you have your own complaints, but those complaints can only be said while your son is alive."

-Ruijerd to
Paul Greyrat

When they reach
Millishion
, Ruijerd reaches out to his contact to secure a passage out of
Millis Continent
 then assists in rescuing the family of soldiers in Shirone Kingdom held by
Pax Shirone
.
 On Red Wyrm Mountains, Ruijerd fights the Dragon God
Orsted
 who attacked Rudeus when he mentions
Hitogami
 which resulted in their defeat but they somehow survived the encounter.






Ruijerd, Norn and Aisha meeting Rudeus



Ruijerd saves Norn who was being confronted by two men and threatens them, causing the men to leave. As Norn vents her frustrations about her family, Ruijerd reflecting on his own pitfalls as a parent, he empowers Norn that she should work harder to overcome her weaknesses, Norn moved by his positive words asks his name, Ruijerd introduces himself, his headband falls revealing his third eye as
Roxy
 and
Lilia
 arrive at the scene. Following the aftermath, Ruijerd meets with Paul who was initially reluctant to let Ruijerd to escort Norn and Aisha to Rudeus in
Sharia
 but eventually consents so Ruijerd became Aisha and Norn's bodyguard on their journey.

Six months later, Ruijerd delivers Paul's daughters to Rudeus in Sharia as promised, yet he is disheartened to learn that Rudeus didn't marry Eris, seemingly crestfallen by the news, he advises Rudeus to reach out for Eris as he believes she's suffering from warrior disease.

The following morning, Rudeus wakes to an unexpected sight with Ruijerd and Badigadi locking tense gazes, Badigadi backs down once Rudeus comes into view and disappears. After that they have breakfast, Ruijerd prepares to depart to resume his search for remnants of his lost kin, with Rudeus, Norn, Sylphie and Aisha escorting him to the town's exit to see him off. As they reach the city's exit, Norn clings tightly to the hem of Ruijerd's vest,  Ruijerd comforts and assures her that their paths will cross again, that she should rely on her brother from now. With warm and hearfelt goodbyes exchanged, he entrusts the children and Rudeus to Sylphie and bids them farewell.






Ruijerd and Rudeus reunion



Seven years later, Ruijerd is spotted by the Rude Mercenary Company in the Biheiril Kingdom, buying medicine and wearing thick robes with a hood to hide his eyes. Fearing that Ruijerd may be in danger from Geese, Rudeus assembles a team to intercept Geese and recruit Ruijerd.

Ruijerd is found in a remote village within the Forest of No Return in the south, living among his tribe, whom Rudeus describes as exceptionally beautiful. At first, Ruijerd was wary and didn’t recognize Rudeus due to his disguise, but after revealing his face, the two shared an emotional reunion. Ruijerd had finally found his people and was no longer alone.

Ruijerd and Rudeus continue their conversation at Ruijerd's house, one of the largest homes in the village owing to his distinguished position. At the same time, Rudeus is struck by how empty the house feels. Rudeus brings up marriage but Ruijerd assures him the past doesn’t weigh on him anymore but he simply hasn't found a partner. Afterward, Rudeus recounts everything that transpired since their separation, including Paul’s death, his encounter with his future self, his marriage to Eris, and his alliance with Orsted, among other things.

Rudeus asks Ruijerd to join him in the future battle against Laplace, however, Ruijerd hesitates and ultimately refuses without explanation. Ruijerd then takes Rudeus into the forest, revealing a grim truth: the plague in the Superd village was never cured, only curbed. The supposed recovery was a lie he told the village elders. He removes his forehead guard to reveal a blue jewel marked with ominous markings, proof that he is possessed by
Abyssal King Vita
.

Volume 23 - Young Man Period - Decisive Battle Chapter

Found in a forest inside the
Biheiril Kingdom
 with fellow Superd Tribe members

Superd Tribe members are all sick with an illness that is temporarily being treated by
Dark King Vita

Possessed by Dark King Vita

Saved from disease by
Cliff Grimoire
 who determine the illness is
Drain Syndrome

Power and Abilities

Super Strength: Can kill A rank Monsters with just one strike. He's described as stronger than
Ghislaine
, and could block Sword God
Gal Farion
's Longsword of Absolute Silence.

Third Eye: Acts as a radar, able to locate enemies which are not in sight.

Master of Stealth.

Demon's long lifespan.

Equipment






Superd Spear



Roxy's Migurd necklace: A necklace of the
Migurd
 tribe that was originally given to Rudeus by his former magic tutor,
Roxy
. During his travels with Ruijerd after the
Calamity
 transported them to the
Demon Continent
, Rudeus gave the necklace to Ruijerd.

Superd Spear: The spear of the Superd will get sharper and harder every time it is used in combat. It was originally his son's and is slightly shorter than usual. Ruijerd has used this spear for at least 400 years, giving off the impression that his spear has sharpened itself to a drastic point and has become incredibly durable and resilient.

Achievements

He was able to deal a fatal blow that helps in the defeat of Laplace.

Quotes

To Rudeus:
 "We were victims of Laplace's plot! The Superd are no race of monstrous beasts!"

To Rudeus:
 "After my complete recovery, I'll become your strength."

To Rudeus:
 "Fighting is a necessity. It's been like this since the beginning of time, it's immemorial."

To Rudeus:
 "Yes. So don't you start crying."

To Paul:
 "You may have your grievances, but those only matter when your son is still alive."

To Norn:
 "Face him up without running away, you are family after all."

To Norn:
 "If you want to be with someone, you need to get bigger, stronger, more impressive."

To the Superds:
 "Do you want us to go extinct?! Rudeus brought that man here, and I trust Rudeus. If you have complaints, save them until after I’m dead."

To Rudeus on Orsted:
 "Appearances can be deceiving."

Trivia

Ruijerd's spear is the last memento of his son Luiweld. It is slightly shorter than usual because Luiweld has a smaller stature than regular warriors
.

Ruijerd's original spear is staked at his son's grave.

During the Laplace War, Ruijerd was deployed with a squadron of elite Superd warriors to infiltrate and scout the Central Continent's defenses. During their mission, they clash with the Dragon God
Urupen
 and his comrades repeatedly, slowly being cornered with every encounter. In order to shake them off they draw lots and one of Ruijerd's partners acts as a decoy, sacrificing themselves to ensure the team's survival. In recognition of this warrior's valor and strength, the Dragon God erects a grave in their honor. Hundreds of years later,
Dead End
 would discover and unearth that site.

Ruijerd is so skilled at "Chinchirorin" that he crushes
Geese
 without ever losing, leaving
Geese
 convinced that he's cheating.

Ruijerd's daughter would be the last
Superd
 warrior that would deal the final blow to
Laplace
 in other loops. Ruijerd is fated to marry
Norn Greyrat
 in many loops.

Kissed
Rudeus
 (Through Possession by
Vita
)

In Orsted's previous loops where Rudeus didn't exist, Ruijerd never met the surviving Superd race in
Biheiril Kingdom
, where they would have been killed by
the plague
.

After learning this, Rudeus finally realized the reason
Hitogami
 told him to help Ruijerd was because Hitogami plotted Ruijerd's death by having him travel to Biheiril Kingdom and encounter the surviving Superd after Rudeus' journey back home and contract the plague that would kill the entire Superd race in order to prevent
Laplace
's death, which is required by
Orsted
 in order to obtain Laplace's treasure for reaching Hitogami.

Gallery

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

References