Information

Relationships

Gallery

Rudeus Greyrat





Ruijerd and Rudeus in the Anime



"He's strong, clever and a warrior worthy of respect."

-Ruijerd

Rudeus first meets Ruijerd after the
Teleport Incident
 where he is instructed by
Hitogami
 to help him. Although Rudeus is initially suspicious but not afraid of Ruijerd, he is not dangerous according to his intuition and he begins to talk to him which baffles Ruijerd on why he is not afraid of him despite being to aware of the
Superd Tribe
's reputation. They would travel together with Eris back to the
Fittoa Region
,
Asura Kingdom
 For the next three years where they became close comrades.
  Ruijerd is deeply grateful for Rudeus whose influence reshaped his worldview by expanding his perspective and helping him move past the foolish thoughts and rigid mindset that once defined his existence on the Demon Continent. Ruijerd's trust in Rudeus is second nature as he's willing to follow his judgment by taking a potentially dangerous medicine created by Cliff despite his tribe's protests and the inherent risks. Futhermore, one of the reasons Ruijerd desired to marry Norn was to establish a familial bond with Rudeus.

Eris Boreas Greyrat





Ruijerd and Eris in the Anime



Like Rudeus, Ruijerd first meets Eris after being teleported to the Demon Continent is very afraid of him because of the stories used by her parents about Superd but with Rudeus' help, she realizes that they are not true. Together with Rudeus, the three became
adventurers
 to be the source of income on their journey back to Asura Kingdom under the party
Dead End
.
 During their free time, Ruijerd also trains Eris and also teaches her Superd Techniques that utilizes bloodlust.

Norn Greyrat





Ruijerd and Norn in the Anime



Ruijerd first meets Norn in
Millishion
 but they barely have any interactions but Norn remembers his face. They met once again at East Port, Central Continent where Ruijerd saves Norn from a bearded man and later escorts Norn and Aisha to
Sharia
 so they can live with Rudeus while Paul goes to the
Begaritt Continent
.
 To help restore the honor of Ruijerd, Norn assists Rudeus with the Superd story book by telling him the stories that Ruijerd told him while on their journey together.

References