This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

Saleyakt
 is a
Red Dragon
 who lived in the
Dragon World
, later in the
Human World
 and is the companion and mount of
Laplace

Appearance

Saleyakt is a small Red Dragon when he first met Laplace and grew while being his companion and mount. By time he lives in the Human World, Saleyakt is larger than any other Red Dragons.

Personality

"The shyest of all Red Dragons."

Laplace

Saleyakt is a proud dragon who refuses to submit to any of the
Dragon Tribe
 even if it means starving. But after being acknowledge by Laplace and becoming his companion and mount, Saleyakt became loyal and would also help him in his tasks of taming other dragons. Despite this change, Saleyakt is still wary of other Dragon Tribe members and is only fond of Laplace.

Background

"I won't teach you anything. Dragons, better get used to them with your own skin."

-Dora to Laplace

During the
Six-Faced World
 Era, Red Dragons dominated the
Dragon World
 where the Dragon Tribe would be their prey. This changed when the
First Dragon God
 trains the Dragon Tribe on harnessing their
Battle Aura
 and would eventually subjugate them and becomes the rulers of Dragon World with the First Dragon God as their leader.
 Since then, dragons are either tamed to be mounts or livestock to be eaten for their meat and various facilities were built and Saleyakt is among those Red Dragons who are interred in these facilities.

Plot

"Saleykat. I shall riase you."

-Laplace

After
Laplace
 completes his Dragon Warrior training, and is assigned to one of the facilities where Saleyakt is held.
Dora
 gives Laplace his first assignment to either tame or kill it to make him understand that there are dragons that cannot be tamed to they are free to kill it. Living like a primal and wild animal in the Demon World, Laplace has an understanding of how Saleyakt feels after numerous attempts of being tamed through taunts and beatings. Saleyakt refuses to submit even Laplace tried to name him and even offering him food but Saleyakt refuses. Laplace decides to try outlast the dragon on who can endure without food to which the dragon eventually collapse while Laplace continues to watch over him to his end as a sign of respect for the dragon's pride.

--To be added

Power and Abilities

References