Information

Relationships

Chronology

Gallery

Sara
 is an
adventurer
 and member of
Counter Arrow
.

Appearance

Sara is a pretty young girl with light blue eyes and short blond hair during her debut. Her face has a sharp expression and facial features from Asura, such that Rudeus felt like she kind of resembles
Eris
.
 She has a slender body with moderate-sized bust.

Personality

During her debut, Sara is headstrong and impulsive, having the tendency to jump into conclusions. She is not afraid to be openly hostile towards those that she dislikes, but cares about her friends and
party members
 deeply.

Initially, she was suspicious, harsh and abrasive towards
Rudeus
 to the point that even Suzanne would call her out on her behavior and gets frustrated to admit that Rudeus saved their lives during their first mission together. But warmed up to him and took initiatives to spend time together after he saved her from an
Icefall Treant
.

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Background






Sara meeting Suzanne and Timothy



Sara is born in
Asura
 in the Milbotts Region ruled by the Notos Greyrat Family. Her father was a hunter from whom she learned how to use the bow.

When a horde of monsters attacked her hometown, Sara's parents tells her to stay behind but later learns that they both have died, leaving Sara to survive on her own by selling the fur and meat.
 Sara later learns that the Notos family refused to send their soldiers, because of that she lost her parents, which lead to her hatred of the nobility in general.

Suzanne
 who was helping in the subjugation of the monsters, took in Sara and years later, she became an official member of the party
Counter Arrow.
 During their missions, Sara would encounter children of nobility who would join their party but abandons them when the situation becomes dangerous causing Sara to further hate nobles and anyone associated with them.

Plot

Mushoku Tensei Volume 7






Sara and Counter Arrow Party



Sara and her party first met a depressed
Rudeus
 in a carriage that was traveling to Ranoa Kingdom. She became angry at Rudeus when
Suzanne
 was being nice to him but Rudeus does not want to talk about himself. Later on, Rudeus joined her party after Suzanne recruited him for a Rank A quest of killing
Grizzlies
 for their hide that Rudeus plans to do alone.
 When Rudeus first joined, Sara's very unfriendly toward him and immediately shoots down any suggestions he makes about party formations because she thought him to be a runaway noble playing as an adventurer, but after many shared experience where he helped the party, she started to warm up to him.

When the party took on the quest to gather
Snow Drake
 scales in the Galgau Ruins, at one point in it, they were rushed by a pack of agitated Snow Drakes forcing Rudeus to try to hold them off with his magic. In doing so, he was too slow to run away from them, luckily, Sara inspired her party to come back to help him and they end up complete the mission, although much less successful than they would had liked due to
Soldat's

party
 interference. In the aftermath party, when a drunk Soldat confronted Rudeus, Sara was quick to jump to his defense.

Later on in the winter season, when Rudeus was not in the party, Counter Arrow took on a mission during a blizzard which made them get lost into the territory of the hostile
Snow Buffaloes
 in Trier Forest. She was separated from her party while running away from the Buffaloes. Sara built an ice cave to shelter from the cold but she got captured by an
Icefall Treant
 to suck out her lifeforce. She would have died slowly if not for Rudeus setting out immediately to find her after hearing the news from her party members. Due to this experience, she grew quite close toward him - going out together and sharing their past experience with one another.

After a date where she got drunk and told Rudeus to bring her back to his room, they ended up trying to make out. But due to the fact that he had ED, it became an awkward experience and she ran away after it, embarrassed and angry, thinking that it's because of her that Rudeus couldn't do it. Afterwards, she tried to come back and make up with him but discovered that he had been going to the prostitutes, misunderstanding him, slapping him, and telling him off, she ran away again. After she calmed down thanks to some advice from Suzanne, she realized that she might have been in the wrong and went to meet Rudeus, unfortunately he had already moved with Soldat's party to another place by then.

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Mushoku Tensei Volume 13

Sara was working in a new party Amazons Ace and out on a quest for Ranoa kingdom Royalty when she coincidentally met Rudeus again who happened to be working for them as well. They have a talk regarding what happened several years ago where they reconciled and recovered their old relationship. After completing the quest, she says goodbye to Rudeus and leaves
Sharia
.

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Mushoku Tensei Volume 23

The party of the Amazons were on a quest in the kingdom of Gardenia in the conflict zone, where they met Rudeus and Eris, who were incidentally looking for North God there. The Amazons have trouble crossing the border out of the country due to war breaking out, but Rudeus escorts them out as he had a passage permit from Millis's missionary knights.

At the time, Sara was the party's second-in-command as one of the leaders had been killed. After accompanying Rudeus out of the Conflict Zone, Sara decides she would retire from being an adventurer, find herself a man and have kids.

Light Novel Special Book






Sara and Rudeus reuniting years later in the Manga



Years later, Sara once again meets with Rudeus who is now living in the rebuilt
Citadel of Roa
. After exchanging stories of what they have been doing, Sara invites Rudeus to dinner and to his surprise, Sara is now married and the restaurant is owned by Sara and her husband.

Power and Abilities

Physical Abilities

Sara stands out for her sheer raw talent that is comparable to Eris.  In combat, her battlefield awareness and agility is top notch that is already in the level of an A-Ranked Adventurer.

Archery






Sara's archery skills in the Anime



Sara is a prodigy for her talent in the bow who has a lot of potential despite the bow being an inferior weapon of choice compared to magic and the various sword styles. She can shoot down monster after monster with perfectly placed arrows even at long range making the disadvantage of carrying arrows seem irrelevant. She can also make her own bows and arrows using raw resources and has the best eyes in the party to scout an enemy over a hundred meters away.

Equipment

Bow

A bow made by her.

Magic Earring






Sara using her Magic Earring



Magic Earring is a
Magic Item
. Its ability activates when the user stabs the end of the feather into the opponent. This will cause the target to be caught in an illusion for a short time, useful for emergencies.

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Achievements

Talented use of the bow from a young age.

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Quotes

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Trivia

Sara is one of the new characters introduced in the Light Novel. She doesn't appear in the Web Novel.

Sara is similar to
Eris
 in many ways - both of them are highly talented combatants, initially hostile towards
Rudeus
, being tsundere in personality, and offered Rudeus their virginity (although Sara failed due to Rudeus' ED). They are even same in age.

Despite not being one of Rudeus' wives, some fans still consider her one of Rudeus' harem members, nicknaming her "Blonde Mama".

References