Information

Appearance

Sauros Boreas Greyrat
 (
サウロス
・
ボレアス
・
グレイラット
)
 was the Landlord of the
Fittoa Region
,
Asura Kingdom
 and the grandfather of
Eris
.

Appearance

His age seems to be around 50 years old, and his dark brown hair is mixed with a little white hair. Despite his advanced age, he still seems to be in a pretty good shape and shows no sign of physical issues.

Personality

Sauros is a strict and boisterous man that tend to speak his mind out loud. When he doesn't agree with the actions of those close to him, he tends to yell at them and sometimes punch them. Even though his demeanor made many believe him to be a tough man that is difficult to please, he was shown to have a soft side: when he sees something cute cause him irritation, he can't manage to stay mad at them for long.

He inherits the fetish for beast race run in the Boreas Greyrat bloodline, shown when he forced
Eris
 to ask
Rudeus
 to be her tutor using the "Boreas Greyrat etiquette". He also believes that having sex with maids isn't cheating.

Background






Boreas Family Emblem in the Manga



Sauros is a noble and head of the Boreas
Greyrat
 family house hold. His son is
Philip Boreas Greyrat
 and he is also
Paul
's uncle. He is the grandfather to two unnamed grandsons and
Eris
.

He played a large part in influencing
Eris
' childhood. Most of her mannerisms stemmed from him, such as the tendency for violence, her foul attitude, pride and incredibly loud booming voice. He would often spoil his granddaughter, which led to her to be so entitled and bratty when she first met
Rudeus
.

After
Fangs of the Black Wolf
 party disbands, Sauros and Eris saves
Ghislaine Dedoldia
 who would have starved to death and she becomes the bodyguard of the Boreas Family because of their fetish towards the beast race.

Plot

In the manga he was the first one to talk to
Rudeus
 criticizing him for improper noble etiquette. He too also fell for the charm of young
Rudy
, stating that he would wage war to make him head of the Notos house hold. After the
Teleport Incident
, he was blamed for the loss of the Fittoa Region and was executed.

It was later revealed that the Boreas
Greyrat
 family bought a lot of beastmen slaves as they were infatuated with them.

Legacy

James Boreas Greyrat
 succeeds him as the Lord of Fittoa
 .

Eris learns of Sauros' death from their head butler
Alphonse
 who now is in charge of the Fittoa Refugee Camp from the Ruins of Roa

Alphonse proposes that Eris become
Pilemon Notos Greyrat
's concubine since James refuses to adopt her

Ghislaine proposes that Eris should run away with Rudeus

Eris chooses to relinquish being a part of the Boreas Family and is now known as Eris Greyrat then Ghislaine brings her to the Holy Land of Swords

Eris' "death" was announced years later
 and the rebuilding effort for the Fittoa Region eventually comes to a stop.

Power and Abilities

As the Lord of Fittoa Region, he held a lot of political power and wealth.

Achievements

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Quotes

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Trivia

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

References