Separation
 (
離別
,

Ribetsu
)
 is the sixth chapter of the
Mushoku Tensei

manga adaptation
.

Cover Characters

Rudeus Greyrat

Summary

Using magic, Rudeus was able to evade Paul's surprise attack having witnessed Paul's strength when defending the village in the past. Rudeus always simulated how to fight him and is grateful to him for being a strong role model. Without knowing his father's motives, Rudeus uses magic to create a stone sword for him and used liquefaction on one of Paul's shoes to momentarily trap him. When Rudeus attempted to repeat the magic on the other foot, Paul easily escaped and rushed against Rudeus, who used "Bomb Blast" to try to gain distance, but Rudeus' evasion proved futile as Paul appeared in front of him. With Rudeus' desperate attack with his stone sword met by Paul's Water God Sword style parry, Paul knocks Rudeus unconscious. As Paul catches his knocked out son, he voices how proud he is of Rudeus for his keen battle sense.

After the match, Ghislaine arrives to talk with Paul as the semi-unconscious Rudeus hears their conversation and learns that Paul and Laws, Sylphie father, were worried because their children were too dependent with each other. Seeing their friendship may hinder their growths in the long term, Paul decided to send his son with some relatives for five years. Paul leave a letter to Ghislaine, while Rudeus begins to lose consciousness.

When Rudeus awakens, he finds himself in a carriage with Ghislaine, and discovers Pauls sent him to the Citadel of Roa, Fittoa's largest metropolis, and arrive at the Mansion of the city ruler, the manor of family Boreas Greyrat. After meeting with the lord of the city, Sauros Boreas Greyrat, and his son, Philip, both Paul's uncle and cousin respectively, Rudeus receives confirmation to the contents of Paul's letter: Rudeus is to be a magic tutor for Ghislaine and Philip's daughter, so that Rudeus will have enough money for the magic university in five years. Philip warns Rudeus that his daughter is a problem child, but Rudeus thinks that can handle it. When Rudeus try to enter to her room, he receives a punch to the face from the young girl, angry that someone younger is going to be teaching her.

Appearances

Characters

Rudeus Greyrat

Zenith Greyrat

Paul Greyrat

Lilia

Ghislaine Dedoldia

Laws

Sylphiette
 (Flashback)

Sauros Boreas Greyrat

Thomas

Philip Boreas Greyrat

Eris Boreas Greyrat

Skills

Regions

Buena Village

Fittoa Region

Citadel of Roa

Others

Differences from Light Novel

To Be Added.

Trivia

The last four pages when Eris appear, is in color in the Japanese version, meanwhile the English version is black and white.

Navigation

Template:JuvenileP