This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!





The Magic City of Sharia in the Anime



The Magic City of Sharia
 is a human city located at the Kingdom of Ranoa, the largest country of the northern region in the
Central Continent
 where Rudeus settles down along with his family after he became a student at the Ranoa Magic Academy.

Geography





The Magic City of Sharia during Spring



"Far to the north of
here
, is a country called Ranoa."

Roxy
 to
Rudeus

Sharia is located at the northern part of the Central Continent where it frequently snows throughout the year. It is also bordered by the Neris Kingdom in the northwest, Basherant Kingdom in the northeast which are part of the Magic Triumvirate together with the Kingdom of Ranoa. To the south is the
Asura Kingdom
 where it is separated by the Red Wyrm Upper Jaw mountain range and at the far west is the
Holy Land of Swords
.

Background

Aside from the Magician Guild Headquarters being located here, Sharia is mainly built for magical research where the Magic Triumvirate of Ranoa, Neris and Basherant poured tremendous amount of resources to build a grand city at the edge of Ranoa. Technically, Sharia is part of Ranoa but it is intentionally built at the border of Ranoa near the other 2 triumvirates where the Ranoa Magic Academy, Magicians Guild Headquarters and Neris Magical Implements Workshop are merged into the city which makes Sharia the center of the Magic Triumvirate Nations. While the Ranoa Kingdom alone wields the same kind of influence and power as the Shirone Kingdom in the south, the combined forces of the Magic Triumvirate is considered to be the hidden fourth power of the
Human World
.

Economy

Aside from the trading of magical goods between the 3 nations, the Magician Guild have monopoly on the sale and production of magic resistant bricks that are designed to repel mana and even withstand a large-scale magical attack. Due to the magical bricks to be very expensive, even for a wealthy nation like Asura only uses them for its capital and not even the Holy Kingdom of Milis nor Dragon King Realm uses them for their walls. As such, the process of their creation is a well guarded-secret.

Areas

When looking at a map, Sharia's design is based from the city of
Millishion
 in the Holy Country of Millis,
Millis Continent
. Technically, Sharia is part of Ranoa Kingdom but parts of the city are territories of the other nations of the Magic Triumvirate which was done intentionally since the main purpose of Magic Triumvirate alliance and building of Sharia is for research and magical advancement and everything about magic is stored in Sharia.

Student District

Ranoa Magic Academy, the centerpiece of the Student District
Sharia viewed from the
Greyrat House
 Gate in the Student District
1/2

Located at the east, the Student District is centered by the Ranoa Magic Academy and is surrounded its facilities and lodgings for students.

Workshop District

Located at the west, the Workshop District are full of artisan workshops and dwellings of its crafters with the Neris Magical Implements Workshop is at the district's center.

Lodging District

Located at the south, the Lodging District which welcomes those entering Sharia, including adventurers and has different kinds of inns to accommodate them depending on their rank.

Commerce District

Rudeus and Sylphiette at the Commerce District
A Commercial District Meat Store in the Anime
A Commercial District Fruit Store in the Anime
A Commercial District Furniture Store in the Anime
A Commercial District Kitchenware and Dining ware Store in the Anime
A Commercial District Clothing Store in the Anime
A restaurant in the Commerce District
A Slave Market in the Commerce District
The Commerce District during a festival
A restaurant in the Commerce District
1/10

Located at the north, the Commerce District where stores are lined up side by side separated by the large and winding main road with the Trader's Guild nestled in the middle.
 The Commerce District is also the location of various cafe and restaurants for nobility, reputable Slave Markets, stores for clothes and other necessities.

Points of Interest

Ranoa Magic Academy

Ranoa Magic Academy Emblem in the Manga
1/2

Ranoa Magic Academy is the largest magic university in the world that surpass even the professors of the Asura Royal Academy that occupies a vast tract of land in Sharia that was built for the purpose of magic research.

Magician Guild Headquarters

The Magician Guild Headquarters is located at the center of Sharia where all the magical research are kept such as production of
Magic Tools
 and Scrolls. One of the heads of the Magician Guild is also the principal Ranoa Magic Academy and because of this, graduates of the academy are granted membership and ranks in the Magician Guild depending on their contributions or research submitted while at the academy.

Rankings

Unlike the Adventure Guild's ranking system which progresses on the number of missions completed, the rankings granted by the Magician Guild is more focused on the recognitions and merits of a member's achievement or magical research accomplishments.

Adventure Guild

Like in most major cities, Sharia has an Adventure Guild branch located at the Lodging District. During times of emergency, such as an attack of a Demon Lord, the leaders of the Magic Nations also calls on Adventurers to respond to such emergencies to buy time while their main forces assemble to subjugate the threat.

Slave Market






A Sharia Slave Market in the Manga



Buying and selling slaves is an accepted practice in the
Human World
 although in the
Millis Continent
 and the southern Central Continent, it is a quiet affair but in the nations of the Northern Central Continent like Ranoa, it is legalized and key part of the economy. Sharia has 5 Slave Markets located at the Commerce District where slaves of most races are sold to be bodyguards or even cannon fodders during war.

Rude Mercenary Company Headquarters

The Rude Mercenary Company is a subsidiary of the
ORSTED Corporation
 where its main headquarters is located at the Third Street of the Lodging District and its members are known for their uniform of black coats with a yellow rat emblem which is their symbol of unity along with their manners. Due to Sharia being relatively peaceful,
Aisha
 established the company to be a bodyguard business that is contracted by the Knights of Ranoa, head of the Magician Guild and the Magic Tool Workshop after 14-15 from the start of business and serves as the neutral faction among them.

Magic

In terms of magic, Sharia has knowledge of most spells up to the King Rank in Attack Magic that are held by ranking members of the Magician Guild and taught in the Academy. But in terms of Divine Magic and Barrier Magic, the
Milis Religion
 owns the rights and forbids the teaching the magic until
K420
 where Sharia is granted permission to only teach the basics of Barrier Magic so instead the class is more focused on how to break through barriers.

While teachers of the academy can use and teach Intermediate Barrier Magic, it was illegal to do so and if they got caught, the
Order of the Temple
 would hunt them down and put them on trial.

Military






Unnamed Leader of Sharia's Knight Group(left)



Sharia is protected by a small unit of soldiers from the Magic Triumvirate stationed in the city to protect their magical assets but in times of emergencies that could result to incalculable damage, the rulers of the triumvirate dispatches their knight groups to intercept the threat that is lead by an unnamed captain for the knights stationed at the city.
 The Order of the Temple stands in direct opposition of the Ranoa Magic Academy and everything it represented but are not willing to start a war over it.

Diplomacy

In terms of relationships with other kingoms, Sharia aside from their agreement with barrier and detoxification magic, is neutral to their dealings with the Holy Kingdom of Milis despite the opposition of the Order of the Temple. Due to their focus on magical research, Sharia also values
Rudeus
 from an alternate future as long as he is useful to them even if it could lead to war against Asura Kingdom and Milis Kingdom.

References