Information

Relationships

Family

Rudeus Greyrat

Rudeus Greyrat is the main protagonist of
Mushoku Tensei
 and is Sieghart's father. As a child, Sieghart listened to his father's stories about 'Cheddarman' and being an ally of justice, values he will still bring way later into his older years. Like many of the kids in the Greyrat family, Sieghart deeply respects him but also believes that his father has no expectations of him. This is because Rudeus raises his children freely which the kids misinterpret as him having no expectation for his children when in truth it's actually the opposite. He is simply too lenient in raising his kids, but he still cares deeply for them especially Sieghart during his time being unemployed at home. Sieghart knows nothing of this and as a result, he tends to avoid his father and only talks to him sparingly. He tries his best to please his father by doing what he thinks his father wants and when he fails, he felt that he disappointed him. Sieghart only knew the truth about his father's intentions and feelings after he and his father had a heart to heart the night before Sieghart leaves Sharia to find Pax.

Sylphiette Greyrat

Slyphiette Greyrat is Sieghart's birth mother.

Lara Greyrat

His sister

Ruijerd Superdia

He calls him Uncle and sees him as a bit stubborn. Because they both have green hair, visiting Ruijerd and
Luicelia
 reassures him that he's normal.

Friends

Pax Jr.

Pax Jr. is the son of the late
King Pax Shirone
 and is Sieghart's best friend. Pax met Sieghart in the Royal Academy of the Asura Kingdom and Pax became his first friend there. They mostly lived their school life together in isolation. After they both graduated, Pax announces that he will return to Kingdom of the Dragon King, receiving some land and eventually developing it to be it's own independent kingdom. Pax asks Sieghart to join him and help him, but Sieghart silently refuses. They then parted ways. After some time, Sieghart decides to find Pax and assist him with his goals, and they reunite again.

Kalman III

Aleksander Ryback, the North God, took Sieghart in as a disciple since a young age. As his master, Sieghart respects him deeply and takes many lessons from him. Sieghart continues to train with him and eventually receives the title of North Emperor.

Sariel Anemoi Asura

Sariel Anemoi Asura is the daughter of Asura Kingdom's queen,
Ariel Anemoi Asura
. Sieghart meets her in the Royal Academy of the Asura Kingdom, and they became friends. Sariel was ordered by her mother to try and marry Sieghart in order to strengthen the ties between the Asuran royal family and the Greyrat family and because of that, Sariel often approaches Sieghart to become close. Sieghart knows about this too and felt that he should marry Sariel, but in the end Sieghart saw her as no more than a friend and didn't marry her.