Information

Appearance

Soldat Heckler
 (
ゾルダート・ヘッケラー
,

Zorudāto Hekkerā
)
 is an S-ranked
adventurer
 and the leader of the party
Stepped Leader
.

Appearance

Soldat has blond hair, blue eyes and sharp features like many of the Northern people. He has a muscular build and is tall for an average person.

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Personality

Soldat is arrogant, short-tempered, confrontational and tends to speak his mind towards people he interact with. He hates people who hide their true thoughts and put on a mask. However, he is a well-meaning and capable leader, willing to go great lengths to take care of people in distress.

Soldat's personality reminds Rudeus of his father and believes that
Paul
 is like Soldat when he was younger.

Background





Soldat Heckler during his childhood in the Manga



"Please Live! Sol..."

-Soldat's Mother

Soldat Heckler is born from a family of nobility but during his childhood they were attacked by unknown assailants and while the servants tells Soldat and his mother to flee, Soldat was the sole survivor when her mother throw her over the bridge and he gets washed away to a dump while waiting for her mother to return.

Soldat eventually becomes the leader of the
Stepped Leader
 that is also part of the "Thunderbolt" Clan

Plot

Soldat Heckler is first seen at the
Adventure Guild
 in Rosenburg, Basherant Kingdom bragging about going into a mission with his party mates.

Power and Abilities

Soldat battling with his sword in the Anime
Soldat evading Rudeus' Magic Spells in the Manga
1/2

He's filling a position of swordsmen with advanced-ranked
Sword God Style
 and intermediate-ranked
Water God Style
.

Soldat is also capable of battling against
Magicians
 and is able to close the distance despite Rudeus' attempt to stay away from his attack range.

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Equipment

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Achievements

Advanced-ranked in the
Sword God Style
 and Intermediate-ranked in the
Water God Style

Leader of the S-ranked party Stepped Ladder

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Relationships

Rudeus Greyrat






Soldat introducing Rudeus to Stepped Leader in the Manga



"He has potential. So no matter what happens, his name will spread."

-Soldat on Rudeus

Soldat initially has a disdain for Rudeus' due to his depressed personality that he confronted Rudeus about it but also secretly instructs his party mates to ignore him. After coming to an understanding on why Rudeus behaves this way, Soldat helps out Rudeus after the rift between him and
Sara
 turns for the worse and even asks him to join him during their quests

Quotes

"You can’t waste time wondering what the reason is behind a woman’s every move. Women are like cats. We’re more like dogs. There’s no way dogs and cats can understand what the other’s thinking, right?”

Trivia

He was used by
Elinalise
 as a male prostitute before she married
Cliff
.

He tried to invite
Rudeus
 multiple times to be his team's permanent magician.

References