The
Superd Tribe
 are a tribal race of infamous warriors from the
Demon Continent
. Due to the tales of their fearsome rampage without distinguishing ally from enemy in the war four hundred years ago, they are loathed and feared by all races.
 They now reside inside a forest in the Biheiril Kingdom, where they are know as "The Forest People" by a local village.

Background

The Superd were once an honorable warrior race and since the early stage had been subordinates of
Laplace
, a hero of who won the authority back from the
Human
 race and unified the
Demon
 Race. Due to the Superd warrior group's extremely high combat prowess, they became Laplace's elite force who specializes in suprise attacks and night raids which also causes them to be treated with both fear and respect.

During the middle period of the
Laplace Wars
 where the invasion of the
Central Continent
 began, Laplace gave the Superd Tribe spears, commonly referred to as "Devil Spears" which looks like the Superd's own spears but painted in ominous black. Some of the Superd rejected the spears as if they are forsaking their own soul but Ruijerd forces everyone to wield the spears as a sign of loyalty. But they were tricked by Laplace during the war. By using
Demon Spears
 instead of their own natural spears, they went berserk and killed everything in sight, as they could not differentiate between friend and foe.

Appearance

Their distinctive characteristics are their emerald green hair and a unique oval-shaped red gemstone embedded in their foreheads.

They are born with a tail, which eventually hardens and falls to become their spear as they grow up.

Abilities

Third Eye

Similar to the
Magic Power Eyes
, it detects
mana
, such as in living beings.

Spears

Superd are exceptional spearmen known throughout the world. The spears they use are unique in that they are actually their tails. Superd are born with tails which slowly harden as they age until they fall off. Because of this, Superd have a very personal relationship with their spears, considering them their souls.

Longevity

Superd are among the longest living races in the series, remaining in their prime even after over 500 years. It was known that some elders that fought the Second Great Human-Demon War were still alive when Laplace recruited the Superd warriors prior to the
Laplace War
.

Known Superd

Ruijerd Superdia

Luwelia Superdia

Ruiweld Superdia

Luicelia Superdia
 (Half-breed)

Village Chief

Rydelios Superdia

Trivia

Superd are so badly discriminated that the transport fee for them to cross the ocean is drastically higher than other races. It costs 200 Green Ore Coins (￥200,000 or US$2000) to travel from
Wind Port
 to
Zanto Port
, and 100 Royal Notes (￥5,000,000 or US$50,000) to travel from West Port to East Port.

Their culture is similar to the
Migurd
's.

References