Surprise
 (
サプライズ
,

Sapuraizu
)
 is the fourteenth chapter of the
Mushoku Tensei

manga adaptation
.

Cover Characters

Ruijerd Superdia

Summary

In a far-off land, a Superd slays a creature while looking for someone in particular.

Back in Roa, Rudeus effectively masters the Beast language under Ghislaine's guidance, all for the day when he meets catgirls in the Great Forest; confirming to Ghislaine that he is indeed a Greyrat. Rudeus then confirms he master Battle-God and Demon-God languages, the latter of which was possible by his master Roxy, who sent him a personally crafted textbook for his understanding. While praising Roxy and mentioning the figurine he made of her, Rudeus's stomach grumbles and Ghislaine tries to keep him out of the kitchen while the staff finishes setting up the surprise by asking about his Water Saint magic. Rudeus brings up his strongest spell, Cumulonimbus, and how it would likely flood Roa, that to safely use it would require driving 2 hours out of town to use it. As Rudeus enjoys seeing Ghislaine gets flustered, a maid enters to announce everything is ready.

At the banquet hall, House Boreas greets Rudeus for his 10th birthday party, who fakes crying how happy he is for the celebration having eavesdropped on Eris a short while earlier. But because of how well he acted, he hug Eris in a move to try to calm her down while thanking her; this only makes her blush more. Sadly, Sauros bought his acting too well and declares war on House Notos with the aim to install Rudeus as head. Once Philip had his wife and a couple beast maids calm Sauros, he explains to Rudeus how Paul was disowned by the Notos family, the House Boreas family rival. If they were to learn of Rudeus being fostered in the Boreas house, it could be misinterpreted as them raising the next head of House Notos.

While wanting to avoid a misunderstanding, Philip still starts to becomes conspiratorial planning Rudeus's ascension, until Eris calls attention. Having readied Rudeus's gift, she asks him to guess and he incorrectly guesses his father to be the surprise. However, Paul had to fight a surge in monsters and Zenith had to tend to Norn with a fever, so his family couldn't make it. While Rudes puts on a brave face, internally not surprised circumstances prevented his family's arrival, the Boreas maids and Eris think he's only putting on a brave face. Surprising everyone in the room, Hilda comes up to "comfort" Rudeus feeling sad for his family not coming, and moves to have him wed Eris. Awkward and red, Eris tries to talk herself out of it until Philip simply commands Hilda to tend to Sauros. Philip praises Rudeus's ploy of gaining sympathy from his father and wife.

With that out of the way, Eris invites Rudeus to return to the festivities and the family enjoy hosting his birthday. As they enjoy, Rudeus remembers and cherishes the feeling of family he has around them. Later in the evening, filled from the feast, Rudeus returns to his bedroom, and is rather confused as he finds Eris in his bed dressed in evening wear.

Appearances

Characters

Ruijerd Superdia

Ghislaine Dedoldia

Rudeus Greyrat

Eris Boreas Greyrat

Philip Boreas Greyrat

Hilda Boreas Greyrat

Sauros Boreas Greyrat

Alphonse

Zenith Greyrat
 (Flashback)

Paul Greyrat
 (Flashback)

Roxy Migurdia
 (Flashback)

Lilia Greyrat
 (Flashback)

Skills

Regions

Others

Differences from Light Novel

Trivia

To Be Added.

Navigation

Template:JuvenileP