Swindler
 (
詐欺師
,

Petenshi
)
 is the eighteenth chapter of the
Mushoku Tensei

manga adaptation
.

Cover Characters

Roxy Migurdia

Rudeus Greyrat

Ruijerd Superdia

Summary

Recalling Roxy's old lessons of how the Superb were fearsome, yet is met by a good warrior with troubled eyes, Rudeus greets him kindly to start a conversation. Rudeus introduces himself and the warrior, Ruijurd Superdia, reciprocates, before asking why Rudeus isn't afraid of him. Moving to sit next to him, Ruijurd confirms he did save Rudeus and Eris, having seen them fall from the sky and killing predators coming at them. Rudeus affirms it would be rude to recoil in fear of his savior, and Ruijurd is surprisingly happy by that, grateful to meet such a strange kid.

As Eris wakes up, she goes into a full panic seeing Ruijurd and apologizes for whatever as she is afraid of being eaten given the stories she was told as a kid. While Ruijurd is unfazed by such a normal reaction, Rudeus feels that people wouldn't be so afraid if they simply talked to him. To get her to change her view, Rudeus plays to her pride to get her to greet Ruijurd, and she gets over her fear of him. As Ruijurd and Eris chat, Rudeus remembers his meeting Man-God in his astral projection. Having been following Rudeus for a while, Man-God wants to help Rudeus with advice and help him along. However, remember false friends form his first life, he refused to believe Man-God until he ultimately decides to go along with it with Ruijurd, but distrusts further involvement.

Around the camp fire, Rudeus updates Ruijurd on how he and Eris came to the demon continent, with Ruijurd noting Almanfi's involvement could mean Perugius's investment in the event. Ignorant to Pergius, Eris gleefully stands up to teach Rudeus, telling the history of humans at war with demon races who served the Demon-God, Laplace, as seven heroes united to face and seal Laplace; three of the heroes survived, Perugius among them. Ruijurd adds that Perugius is adept at summoning, so he likely sent Almanfi to stop whatever unpredictable event was going to happen. Recalling Perugius's name from a story book as a baby, Rudeus grows homesick and worried for his family, liking to believe they're doing OK.

Given the distance traveled, Rudeus and Ruijurd etch a map in the dirt to show Eris how far they travelled from Roa in the Fittoa region of Asura Kingdom; a distance Rudeus calculates to be equal between Las Vegas to Paris in his head. With it being nighttime, Ruijurd tosses them a blanket so they can sleep while he guards. With Eris worried for her parents and Ghislaine, Rudeus holds her close and swears to bring her home. In awe of Rudeus's dedication, Eris gleefully heads to bed leaving everything up to Rudeus. While Eris sleeps, Rudeus vows to bring her home safe, as Ruijurds looks over at him.

Appearances

Characters

Roxy Migurdia
 (Flashback)

Rudeus Greyrat

Ruijerd Superdia

Eris Boreas Greyrat

Hitogami
 (Flashback)

Almanfi
 (Flashback)

Skills

Regions

Others

Differences from Light Novel

Trivia

To Be Added.

Navigation