This article
lacks information
 and requires expansion. Please
expand this page
 to include missing information to help improve the article.

Information

Chronology

Relationships

Powers and Abilities

Gallery

Family

Rudeus Greyrat

Rudeus teaching Sylphiette Voiceless Incantation in the Anime
Sylphiette forgiving Rudeus
Rudeus tutoring Sylphy in the Anime
Sylphiette not wanting to separate from Rudeus
Rudeus meeting Fitz in the Anime
Rudeus learning Fitz is Sylphy in the Anime
Rudeus showing Sylphy their new house
Rudeus and Sylphy's wedding reception
1/8

Her childhood friend and husband. They first met when Rudeus saw Sylphy getting bullied, and became fast friends. Rudeus would teach Sylphy magic to defend herself from bullies. Rudeus assumed that Sylphy was a boy until the bathroom incident where they were in the bathroom on a rainy day to take a bath but Rudeus forcefully stripped her and figures out that Sylphy is a girl. Sylphy would eventually develop a crush on Rudy. After 8 years, they finally reunited at the Ranoa Magic Academy, but Rudy wasn't able to recognize her because she was Fitz at that time. With the help of Ariel, Sylphy was able to recreate a childhood event, Rudeus was finally able to realize that Fitz was actually Sylphy. This lead to Rudy accepting her love; fully expressing his own affection, unknown to her, due to his trauma with Eris making him believe Sylphy would leave him too if he wasn't clear.

Sylphy was worried that her flat and un-curvy body wasn't attractive enough for Rudy; only to be surprised that he found her figure "divine". After giving her virginity to Rudy, Sylphy was surprised to hear him indirectly propose to her; after the princess asked how Rudy would take responsibility and not abandon the one he loves. Shortly afterwards, they get married and buy a home, graduating school and Sylphy becomes pregnant.

She becomes pregnant with Lucy Greyrat and Sieghart Saladin Greyrat.

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Laws





Sylphy and Laws in the Manga



Laws:"Does Sylphy want to keep being only protected by him forever?"
Sylphy:"I understand. I will become strong to help Rudy...!!"

Laws is Sylphiette's father who loves his child despite having green hair which makes people afraid of her which is accepted by adults but the children of
Buena Village
 would bully her and Laws talked to the parents of children but the bullying has not stopped until Rudeus protects her. But when Paul tells Laws of his plan to separate Rudeus and Sylphy, he agrees seeing how Sylphy has become too dependent of Rudeus and through his encouragement, Sylphy decides to train on his own while apart from Rudeus.

Elinalise Dragonroad





Sylphy and Elinalise in the Anime



Elinalise Dragonroad is Sylphy's grandmother. Like most of her children, Elinalise raised Laws until he became independent and severed ties with them due to her curse. But Laws told Sylphy who Elinalise really is and she is also part of the
Fangs of the Black Wolf
 Party with Paul. During Sylphy's wedding reception with Rudeus, Elinalise congratulates them and tries to stop her tears, leading Sylphy to ask if she really is her grandmother. After talking things out, Sylphy and Elinalise consider each other as family again.

Lucy Greyrat





Sylphy after giving birth to Lucy in the Anime



The first daughter between Rudeus and Sylphiette.

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Sieghart Saladin Greyrat

The second son between Rudeus and Sylphiette.

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Paul Greyrat






Sylphy, Rudues and Paul in the Anime



"Even though I easily avoided them, the magic has speed and power besides the voiceless incantation. If it was anyone else, they probably would have died. What the heck did this Rudy teach?"

Paul Greyrat after avoiding Sylphy's Spell

Paul is Sylphy's father-in-law and although their interactions are not shown much, Paul helps Rudeus on how to talk to Sylphy after the awkward incident.
 When Paul realizes that Rudeus is getting too attached to Sylphy that is hindering both of their growth, Paul decides to separate them. Before Paul sends off Rudeus to the
Citadel of Roa
, Sylphy sees Rudeus who is tied up and attacks Paul with an intermediate ranked spell that he avoids. Paul then sees Laws talking to Sylphy is glad that his son is being loved.

Princess Ariel Faction

Ariel Anemoi Asura

Sylphy saving Ariel from a Terminate Boar in the Anime
Fitz protecting Ariel in the Anime
Sylphiette and Ariel in the Light Novel
1/3

Ariel: "Powerless as I am, I cannot help you. So, I will no burden you anymore than I already have. From this day forth, you are-"
Fitz: "No. You called me your friend, Your Highness. You are my friend, too. When my friends are in trouble, I want to help them. When they are in danger, I save them. That is no burden. This time, I want to go with you of my own free will."

When the
Teleport Incident
 transported Sylphy to the Silver Palace's  royal gardens in Asura Kingdom, she meets Ariel after protecting her from a
Terminate Boar
 and was nursed and cared for by Ariel until she recovers. After this event, Ariel's faction wants to dispose of Sylphiette but Ariel insists that she became her Magic Guardian after
Derrick Redbat
 where Sylphiette is known as Silent Fitts. Sylphiette joins Ariel on her journey to
Sharia
 and battle off numerous assassination attempts by the First Prince's faction and later become close friends.

Because Ariel's harsh childhood of being targeted by assassins, Ariel developed a sadistic personality and when she tries to attack Sylphiette in her bed, Sylphiette who knows of the inner workings of the Silver Palace from Lilia retaliates with her magic causing severe injuries to Ariel and also became a masochist. Despite Ariel's personality Sylphiette develops a bond with Ariel and they become friends that Sylphy decides to join her to Sharia and continue her duties as Ariel's
Magic Guardian
.
 At Sharia, Sylphy confirms that the rumored
Quagmire
 Rudeus is her childhood friend and with Ariel's help, they reunite and eventually marry.

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Luke Notos Greyrat






Sylphiette and Luke in the Light Novel



Luke:"IF you want to help Ariel-sama, then kill Rudeus. If I said that, what would you do? If you had to choose between them, who will you choose?"
Sylphiette:"I choose Rudi."

Luke is Sylphiette's partner in her work as a
Guardian Magician
 while Luke is a
Guardian Knight
. Like Ariel, Luke was also saved by Sylphiette when the Terminate Boar appears in the Silver Palace's Garden which would have killed Luke and Ariel. Initially, Luke dislikes Sylphiette for being a commoner who has no place to be with the nobility but he opposed their faction's proposal to dispose of him since Sylphiette is a girl. As Sylphiette struggles to adjust to her new life as Ariel's guardian, Luke would occasionally help out Sylphiette and gives advice on how to improve which they eventually became close friends after they survived the journey to Sharia.
  After Sylphiette marries Rudeus, Luke challenges Rudeus to a duel in which Rudeus thinks that Luke also loves Sylphiette.

When Luke tries to stop his
father
's execution by taking Ariel hostage, Sylphiette choose Rudeus over Ariel but her words causes Luke to release Ariel and is later forgiven.
 After Ariel becomes queen, Luke offers to welcome Sylphiette anytime in his home but Sylphiette tells him she won't break up with Rudeus.

Others

Nanahoshi Shizuka

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

References