Information

Chronology

Relationships

Powers and Abilities

Gallery

Abilities

『Voiceless Incantation』





Sylphiette learning Voiceless Incantation from Rudeus



Rudeus taught her how to use Voiceless Incantation but unlike Rudeus, she is able to use it even with healing and detoxification magic. She is, however, unable to use voiceless incantation for melded magic.

『Disturb Magic』





Syphiette practicing Disturb Magic with Rudeus



Disturb Magic, cancels other magic. Sylphiette first sees Rudeus use Disturb Magic at the
Ranoa Magic Academy
 and asked
Rudeus
 on how he canceled her magic during the entrance exam
 and later asked him to teach it to her.

Magic

Sylphy using Sonic Blast on a Terminate Boar
Sylphy using Sonic Boom against Nights Eye Crow in the Anime
1/2

『Fire Magic』

Intermediate Rank

『Water Magic』

King Rank

『Earth Magic』

Advanced Rank

『Wind Magic』

Advanced Rank

『Healing Magic』

Fitz using Healing Magic on Rudeus
Fitz using Healing Magic on Juliette
1/2

Advanced Rank - Sylphy learns Healing Magic from
Zenith Greyrat
 when she begins helping in the
Buena Village
 Clinic to try to know where Rudeus was taken and realizes that Healing Magic is one of her strong points. Aside from
Orsted
, Sylphy is the only known person in the series that could cast healing magic without incantation.

『Detoxification Magic』

Advanced Rank - Sylphy is able to use a voiceless Detoxification magic that she uses to neutralize a poison used by Nights Eye Crow, an assassin targeting Ariel that she narrowly survives.
. She is the only known person in the series that could cast it without incantation.

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Equipment

Ariel gives Sylphy Magic Items and Magic tools as an overhaul of her appearance to fulfill her new duty as the Second Princess' Guardian.

Magic Wand





Sylphiette using her Magic Wand to confront Luke in the Light Novel



A magic wand given to Sylphiette by Rudeus, whom the latter had received from
Roxy
. After the
Teleport Incident
, Sylphiette uses this to kill the terminate boar that attacked Ariel and desperately did not want to part with it as it is her sole property from Rudeus.

Cloak of Perpetual Warmth

Cloak that regulated the body temperature, preventing sudden illness. Previously owned by
Derrick Redbat
.

Gale Boots

Shoes that greatly increase the user's speed. Previously owned by Derrick Redbat.

Overwhelming Gloves

Pair of gloves that halves all impact damage received near the palm. Previously owned by Derrick Redbat.

Bustier of the Steel-threaded Silkworm

A special undergarment was newly ordered for Sylphy. It is made with fibers that resist most blades, however it cannot withstand an attack by someone using skills of the
Sword God Style
, rather it's more for preventing wounds from the level of a thrown dagger.

Sunglasses of the Rescuer

A sunglasses allowing the face to remain hidden, it allows perception of the crisis state of the princess instantaneously. Despite the wearing of sunglasses being frowned upon by the nobility, the king gave special permission to allow Sylphy to wear them after the recent terminate boar attack.

Illusionary Ring

Allows user to change appearances into the wearer of the ring's other pair. Does not change eye color or voice.

Reference