This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

Szilard
 is from the Saint Dragon Tribe and the leader of the Five Dragon Generals who oversees the protection of the Dragon World and its capital city Kayos.

Appearance

At a glance, Szilard can be seen as a leader of his people but not in the apex like the
First Dragon God
 and his most outstanding features is his ephemeral golden eyes, seen in most of the Dragon Tribe but instead of any softness, it shows a strong will laid back on them.
 Apart from being slightly bigger than the rest of the Dragon Tribe, he gives off a different aura and his scales are emerald-silver giving a calm impression.

Personality

Szilard is always calm, decisive and of good judgement even when his opinions are opposed by other Dragon Generals.

Background

The First Dragon God teaches the Dragon Tribe how to use
Dragon Battle Aura
 that allowed them to battle against the dragons that rule over Dragon World and eventually conquer it. Although the First Dragon God is powerful, he is not omnipotent and there are places out of reach as well. Thus, from the Dragon Tribe, he chose the 5 most powerful individuals to be the Dragon Generals whom he entrusts with protecting the Dragon World and Szilard is one of them who are loyal to the First Dragon God.

Szilard is the leader of the
Five Dragon Generals
 and is responsible for the entire Dragon Tribe but most of his duties is in the capital city of Kayos and is in charge of the Dragon Warriors. In a sense making him the Second-in-Command in the Dragon World when the Dragon God is away and during meetings, its usually Szilard who summarizes of the opinion of the Five Dragon Generals and offer his best judgment.
 Like the rest of the Dragon Generals, Szilard also has a unique emblem that resembles the Dragon God's emblem with some alterations.(see photo above)

Plot

Szilard greets the First Dragon God who just returned from the Demon World and brings Laplace with him. Although he is wary of
Laplace
, he didn't question the Dragon God's decision to raise him. On the meeting regarding
Crystal
's death, Szilard concludes that a gold dragon could not kill a Dragon General and considers the possibility that someone with the power of the Eight Demon Kings could possibly kill him. Despite volunteering himself to find Crystal's killer, Szilard did not oppose the idea of Laplace volunteering as well.
 Szilard greets Laplace who has just returned to Kayos after capturing
Necrolia Nacrolia
 and commends him for his work along with the Dragon Warriors and takes over the custody of Nacrolia for interrogation since he can understand Demon God language.

"Dragon God-sama, we are of one will, let's invade Demon World immediately and let them receive the just reward fro what the Five Dragon Generals have suffered."

-Szilard

Szilard attends another meeting with the rest of the Dragon Generals at the Dragon God's mansion and after Laplace conludes his report, Szilard confirms that Necrolia indeed killed Crystal under orders from the
Demon God
 to stop the Teleportation Research for the Dragon Tribe and confirms that Necrolia is already executed. After the rest of the Dragon Generals voices their opinions, Szilard summarizes their recommendation to invade the Demon World but the Dragon God chooses to negotiate with them. Like the rest of the Dragon Generals, Szilard is reluctant with the Dragon God's decision but still asks that Laplace be rewarded for his efforts on capturing Crystal's killer to which the Dragon God names him to be Crystal's successor as Dragon General. Although shocked by the Dragon God's word, Szilard acknowledges Laplace's loyalty to the Dragon God and praises him for accomplishing his mission.

When the Dragon God's child is born, Szilard announced that a parade will be held at Dragon Roar Mountain which is a grand celebration that lasted for decades and like the rest of the Dragon Generals, Szilard is also impressed by the child and left with a solemn expression.

You are more gracious to Lunaria than anyone else. Everyone acknowledges your loyalty to the Dragon God. You cannot cause that tragedy."

Szilard to Laplace

A few days after Lunaria's death, Szilard and the rest of the Dragon Generals holds a meeting where Szilard reports his list of suspects that are from the other worlds like
Pudoria Dordia
 and
Kirisis Calisis
. Szilard notices that Laplace has gone pale after giving his report then assures him that none them believe that Laplace could have done this much to his relief.

Szilard and the rest of the Dragon Generals accompanies the First Dragon God as he battles and defeats the Gods of the Beast World, Ocean World and Sky World one after another and resulting to the destruction of each world just by the power of the First Dragon God and the Five Dragon Generals.
 But for the Demon World, which is comparable in fighting strength with the Dragon Tribe and in addition, the Eight Great Demon Kings matched strengths with the Five Dragon Generals so the full force of the Dragon World's Dragon Warriors is brought to wage war on the Demon World. The war between the Dragon World and Demon World lasted for decades where one world manages to defend their world and launch a counter offensive on the other's world but are forced to withdraw after faltering.

The stale mate lasted until the Eight Demon Kings were defeated by isolating them one after another and causing the Demon God to finally appear in battle. After the First Dragon God defeats the Demon God, the Dragon Generals brings him back to the Dragon World as the Demon World's destruction begins.

--To be added--

Power and Abilities

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Equipment

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Achievements

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Quotes

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Trivia

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

References