This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

Information

Relationships

Tallhand
 (
タルハンド
,

Taruhando
)
 also known as
Talhand The Clifftop
 (
厳しき大峰のタルハンド
,

Ikameshiki Taihō no Taruhando
)
 is a short rugged
dwarf
 magician used to be in
Paul Greyrat
's party before
Rudeus
 was born.

Appearance

Like all dwarfs, Talhand is short compared to other races. He also has a long orange beard that reaches below his waist that are split in two by dark bracers.

He is always seen clad in dark armor, gauntlets and helmet with a white robe underneath his armor.

Personality

While Talhand shares similarity with all dwarves that likes rock and iron, alcohol and admiration for blacksmiths and builders, he is considered a maverick among dwarves due to his unconventional thinking and stubbornness. He learned water and wind magic that are frowned upon by dwarves, and refused to conform to the traditional dwarven mindset of blacksmithing and crafting but he is very devoted towards people he trusts and admire especially towards his younger brother
Godbard
. But when Godbard also ostracized him, he leaves the village and finds it hard to trust other people. Furthermore, his attraction to men more than women made him struggle to join any
Adventurer
 party.

Background

Talhand is the 37th of 51 siblings born in the Dwarf Village which has a culture that all children of the same generations are grouped together like a school.

Talhand is close to his 38th sibling, Godbard and to support him, Talhand offers to focus his studies on Water and Wind Magic to become his right hand man when he becomes the next Ore God. Godbard agrees and also thinks that the adult dwarves are too hard headed on their tradition that dwarves to practice Earth Magic for generations. Talhand delightfully advance his studies on water and wind magic at the scorn of his other siblings. When the day for Godbard to become Ore God has come, he did not select Talhand. Talhand argues with Godbard that he studied learning wind and water magic to support him but Godbard rebukes him after losing to a blacksmithing competition so Talhand leaves the village next day on the succession ceremony of the new Ore God.

Talhand began his travels as an
Adventurer
 and is always alone. Due to his incident with Godbard, he could no longer bring himself to trust other people, cladding himself in armor and resigning to the role of a Magic Knight, believing that adventuring wouldn't be too hard. When Talhand reaches Rank B Adventurer, he is approached by
Elinalise Dragonroad
 and they begin to occasionally work together because of Elinalise's abilities being a fast warrior and heavily armored mage. Talhand and Elinalise meshed well together despite finding her irritating because of her advances. Neither of them talked about forming an official party until
Paul Greyrat
 brings them together with
Ghislaine Dedoldia
 and
Geese Nukadia
, and so Talhand becomes one of the members of the
Fang of the Black Wolf
, a party of outcasts from their own town.

Plot






Talhand battling a Manatite Hydra in the Anime



A dwarf that was member of the Party "Fang of the Black Wolf". He, along with
Elinalise
 and
Roxy
, decides to help Paul to find his family.

He later joins Paul to search for Zenith in the
Teleportation Labyrinth
 and takes part in battling the
Manatite Hydra
 where he tanks the Hydra attacks and is partnered with Roxy

Redundancy

Talhand opens a shop in
Millishion
 after forging weapons and armor for the
Rude Mercenary Company
 which becomes his sponsor. Talhand then visits the Dwarf Village to arrange a meeting with Rudeus and the Ore God after settling an old grudge.

Powers and Abilities

Physical Abilities






Talhand tanking a Manatite Hydra attack while protecting Roxy



Being a Magical Knight, Talhand is skilled in combat and is able to survive being a solo Rank B adventurer.
 Talhand is also an effective
Tank
 being able to stop an attack of a
Manatite Hydra
.

Blacksmithing

After leaving the Dwarf Village, Talhand's blacksmithing skills are base level for a dwarf and during his time as an adventurer, he also took up smithing jobs to improve his skills. After taking a break from his travels and staying in
Millishion
, he decides to improve his blacksmithing skills and begin utilizing wind, earth, fire and water magic at his disposal to start creating swords, shields, helmets and armor based on his knowledge as an adventurer about what kind of equipment outperform others and his skills rapidly increased and his wares sold well.

With his reputation as a blacksmith known in Millishion and being acquainted with Rudeus, the
Rude Mercenary Company
 became his sponsor where Talhand is able to setup his own shop.

Magic Abilities






Talhand using Earth Pillar in the Anime



Due to his
Dwarf
 Heritage, Talhand has a natural affinity for Earth and Fire Magic but in order to be the right hand man of Godbard, Talhand studied Water and Wind Magic that is frowned upon by dwarven tradition.

Immune to the charms of a Succubus

Intermediate Rank Earth Magic

Elementary Rank Fire, Water, Wind Magic

Equipment

Axe

Talhand uses an axe-like wand that can presumably be used both as a wand and an axe.

Armor

Due to Talhand's agility being zero, Talhand clad himself in dark colored armor and has survived being a solo adventurer as a Warrior and Magician.

Achievements

Created a sword using a black ore made by Rudeus that the Ore God took great interest of the black ore to the point that he agreed to be part of the
ORSTED Corporation
 for a large amount of the black ore.

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Quotes

Elinalise
: "Rudeus, I'd be carefull if I were you, this dwarf drinks up men too"

Rudeus
: "Ehh"

Talhand
: "Don't say things in such a way that will cause misunderstandings..."

Talhand
: "I take men only"

Trivia

His first love was
Godbard
, the current Ore God.

References