Tears of Regret
 (
後悔の涙
,

Kōkai no Namida
)
 is the twenty-sixth chapter of the
Mushoku Tensei

manga adaptation
.

Cover Characters

Eris Boreas Greyrat

Rudeus Greyrat

Gablin

Bachirou

Kurt

Ruijerd Superdia

Summary

In the Forest to slay a monster, Rudeus's pause to help fellow Adventurers results in one of them dying, compelling Ruijurd and Eris to jump in and slay the monsters attacking them. After Rudeus slays the Executioner as Ruijurd and Eris slay the Anaconda, Kurt is thankful for the rescue. Ruijurd demands Rudeus's reason for waiting so long when the could have saved Gablin, but knowing he waited to try and garner more glory builds on the guilt in his heart as his focus on profit allowed Gablin to die. However, Kurt intercedes siding with Rudeus as his team were the adventurers on mission, thus Gablin's death sits on Kurt's shoulders being the party leader. Hearing Kurt, Ruijurd apologizes and acknowledges them as warriors, stating his view on the ideal of honor as he apologizes to Rudeus in the misunderstanding that he was protecting their honor as adventurers. Despite Ruijurd's kind words, Rudeus's guilt still lingers inside, thinking only of profit and advancement while viewing the situation as a game.

Thinking how his past self would be fine getting away with the "good ending", Rudeus cannot help but quietly hate himself for allowing someone to die. After parting ways with the other adventurers, Team Dead End ventured further into the forest and found the remains of another adventurer team they met earlier. The culprit was revealed to be a Red Hood Cobra, an A-Rank creature that made the forest its home. Despite the cobra's evasiveness, Dead End succeeded in killing it and claimed materials from the remains before heading back to the guild. Tired from the events of the day, Rudeus just wants rest but is met by Nokopara, who found out that Rudeus traded jobs with the Peahunter team, forcing a confession from Jalil when he took Vizquel hostage. Nokopara demands a monthly fee for his silence, as quest trading is grounds for revoking their license. But in a plan to sacrifice their licenses to escape, Rudeus orders Ruijurd to carry him and Eris out once he floods the city.

After failing and quitting all his past life, Rudeus just wants to live his second life to the best he can, but Ruijurd splashes his head to reveal his green hair. Not wanting Rudeus to dirty his hands, Ruijurd exposes himself as a real Superd, causing immediate panic in the city. As Jalil and Vizquel disavow them, citizens scream in fear, and Kurt is afraid despite being saved earlier in the forest, Rudeus doubts he'll ever be able to mend their reputation. Once Ruijurd threatens to kill Nokopara if their adventurer licenses are revoked, he flees leaving Rudeus and Eris, who chase after him; Kurt realizing that they knew Ruijurd was a Superd. With Ruijurd scapegoating himself to allow Rudeus not to shoulder more blame, Rudeus breaks down crying as the city continues to panic.

Appearances

Characters

Eris Boreas Greyrat

Rudeus Greyrat

Gablin

Bachirou

Kurt

Ruijerd Superdia

Nokopara

Jalil

Vizquel

Skills

Regions

Others

Differences from Light Novel

Trivia

To Be Added.

Navigation