This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

Lilia and Aisha during the Teleport Incident
Teleport Incident manifesting above Roa
Ghislaine caught in the Teleport Incident
1/3

The
Teleport Incident
, also known as
Metastasis Event
 is a
Mana
 calamity that occurred in the
Fittoa Region
,
Asura Kingdom
 in
K417
 which resulted to its citizens to be teleported to random locations on the world.  The incident caused an innumerable amount of casualties and the first turning point in
Rudeus Greyrat
's life in the series.

Prelude

"I'm not sure. That's discovered three years ago but its not something bad... It's better to think that way."

-Sauros to Rudeus





Red Orb appearing above the Boreas Estate



Since the era of the
Six-Faced World
, numerous teleportation incidents has already occurred but in a smaller scale which is also one of the reasons why there is animosity between the worlds because of suspicions of one world might be invading the other for the disappearance of their people or appearance of monsters. But according to the
Dragon Tribe
 researchers' hypothesis: a power possessed by every living creature permeates the Six Worlds which is called
Dragon Battle Aura
 by the Dragon Tribe while the Demons call it
Mana
 or Magic Power that is said to maintain a natural equilibrium within the Six Worlds. However, the power of the Six Worlds suddenly declined, creating significant imbalances. If the power diminishes significantly in one world, it'll absorb power from another world to compensate which results to the teleport incident, causing not only trees and animals but also people to disappear.

Although Teleportation Magic is forbidden by the First Dragon God because it may trigger a war, research is still conducted by all beings of the Six Worlds. For Dragon Tribe, this research is assigned to
Crystal
 and later inherited by
Dora
. The research is conducted by the older members of the Dragon Tribe since they are near the end of their life in a facility faraway from the rest of the denizens of the Dragon World so other cities will be unaffected incase of accidents. The First Dragon God plans to share the research to the other worlds to prevent anymore teleport incidents but this did not happen because of the war that lead to the destruction of the other worlds except the
Human World
.

In K412, a red orb appears floating above the Boreas Estate in
Roa
 and there is no known history recorded of such occurrence in the past. In a conversation with Rudeus,
Sauros
 tells him that it's not a bad thing and that it is better to be left at that. Five years since its appearance, Rudeus notices that the orb seems to be getting bigger but overall the daily life and activities of Roa's citizens goes on.

Cause

The cause of the Teleportation accident was actually the result of events taking place roughly 80 years in the future. At this time, a certain nation was embroiled in a war and used the power of an individual known as the "
Playback Miko
" to summon
a boy from another world
, who was prophesied to be their savior. The Miko would grow close to the summoned hero and eventually develop feelings for him. Unfortunately, the boy was actually just an ordinary human and he ended up dying when the country forced him onto the battlefield. Overcome with grief, the Miko burnt out her power, to bend time and space, to alter the world to one where she and the boy might live happily together.

To successfully alter history, the Playback Miko reached out with her power and found an individual with similar feelings for the boy as herself:
his girlfriend
 from his original world. She then attempted to summon her to her current location, the Fittoa Region, roughly 80 years in the past. The Miko's hope was that this would allow her to set things up so that the boy would not have to die. Unfortunately, the world itself fought back against the Miko's attempt to alter fate, and thus nothing happened initially. However, the Miko's attempt to summon someone from another world opened up a rift in space from which the soul of
a recently deceased individual
 emerged and was reincarnated into the world.

Due to the reincarnated individual not being from this world, the world's resistance to the Miko's power began to wane as he grew and began to influence the fates of those around him. As a result, the void eventually became visible to the naked eye in the form of a floating red orb. Eventually, the world could no longer hold it back and the rift fulfilled its purpose by successfully summoning the boy's girlfriend into the world, causing the Teleport Incident in the process.

Manifestation

The orb gathering mana that looks like a storm
Kishirika using her Clairvoyant Eye to view the Mana Orb
1/2

In K417, huge amounts of mana gather around the orb and looking like a storm with eight eyes.
Orsted
 and
Kishirika Kishirisu
 senses the gathering of mana and mobilizes to find the source.
Perugius Dola
 aboard his Sky Castle notices the mana resembles the light of summoning and considers the possibility that someone could be seeking to undo the seal on
Laplace
. Perugius then commands
Almanfi
 to investigate the source of the mana and kill any suspicious persons on sight. At this time, Rudeus,
Eris
 and Ghislaine are outside of Roa to test out his new staff,
Aqua Heartia
 that Rudeus received on his tenth birthday from Eris the day before. Almanfi attacks them but Ghislaine fights him briefly and assures him that they have nothing to do with the incident. As the magic activates, Almanfi teleports out of the area then a pillar of light lands and expands at high speed, enveloping anyone it touches and teleports them randomly all over the world.

Casualties

List of Missing and Casualties in the Adventurer Guild in the Anime
List of Missing and Casualties in the Adventurer Guild in the Manga
1/2

Due to the Teleport Incident massively affecting the Fittoa Region, the definite number of casualties and missing are nearly impossible to account for. The Refugee Camp of the Fittoa Region has a list of missing and dead while adventurers and former adventurers alike search for the missing and coordinating with adventurer's guilds in the continent.

Known Casualties:

Philip Boreas Greyrat
 and
Hilda Boreas Greyrat
 are teleported to a
Strife Zone
 with
Ghislaine
. By the time Ghislaine reaches them, they are both already slain.

Laws
 and his wife are reported to have died and it took a heavy toll on Sylphiette who is in Sharia after joining Ariel.

Aftermath

"This much is certain. Originally I suspected Laplace or someone associated with him, however... Summoning her over is impossible even for me. In that case, it shouldn't be possible for anyone of this world... I suspect it's not man-made. It just happened by chance."

Perugius to Sylphiette

Rudeus and Eris meeting Ruijerd
Roxy, Tallhand and Elianise heading to the Demon Continent
Nanahoshi in the Asura Kingdom
Paul and Norn returning to where Buena Village used to be located
Rudeus seeing what remains of the
Greyrat Family
's Home in Buena Village
Roa now in ruins where its survivors builds a Refugee Camp
1/6

Buena Village
 and
Roa
 disappears from the face of the continent and all that remains are the ruins and rubble of where its buildings stood.

Hitogami begins appearing in Rudeus' dreams

Rudeus and Eris are teleported to the
Demon Continent
 and is saved by
Ruijerd Superdia
 who accompanies them on their journey back to Roa and joins the
Adventure Guild
.

Sylphiette
 is teleported to the Asura Kingdom where she becomes
Ariel Anemoi Asura
's bodyguard as Fitts and accompanies her to
Ranoa Magic Academy
 after she left the kingdom.

A
Knight
 who is barely outside the zone of area affected by the teleportation, reports what happened to the nearest town, and the report was spread throughout the Asura.

The King of Asura also hears of the news and assigns the Asura Magic Division to investigate which also clears Sylphiette from suspicion that she is a spy.

Roxy Migurdia
 joins
Elinalise
 and
Tallhand
 to search for Rudeus in the Demon Continent.

Paul Greyrat
 and
Norn Greyrat
 are teleported to the Southern Regions of the Asura Kingdom. Alphonse, Butler of the Boreas Greyrat Estate recruits him and he joins the search group for his family and other missing citizens of Fittoa.

Paul and Norn eventually goes to
Millishion
, Holy Kingdom of Milis and asks support in the search effort from Countess
Claire Latreia
 who immediately agrees after learning Zenith is among the missing. With no news of his families' whereabout, Paul sinks into depression and spends his days drinking until he reunites with Rudeus at Millishion.

Zenith Greyrat
 is teleported to the
Teleport Labyrinth
 where Rudeus, Roxy and members of the
Fangs of the Black Wolf
 would eventually rescue her but she has become unresponsive.

Lilia Greyrat
 and
Aisha Greyrat
 are teleported to the Shirone Kingdom and are imprisoned
Pax Shirone
. Rudeus, Eris and Ruijerd rescues them with aid from
Zanoba Shirone
 after learning that Rudeus is the creator of the Roxy figurine he likes.

Nanahoshi
 is summoned to the Asura Kingdom grasslands and was saved by Orsted, eventually travelling together since she is unaffected by the curse on Orsted.

Nobles who has a grudge on Sauros like Pilemon and the Second Prince's faction schemes on eliminating Sauros

Sauros Boreas Greyrat is blamed for the calamity and is executed.  He is succeeded by James Boreas Greyrat

Alphonse
 takes charge on managing Roa, now converted to Fittoa refugee camp and its refugees rescued from the teleportation. He proposes that Eris becomes
Pilemon Notos Greyrat
's concubine.

Ghislaine returns from the Strife Zone and works on the Fittoa refugee camp. She proposes Eris should be with Rudeus or run away together.

Rudeus, Syphiette and Nanahoshi begins research to uncover the truth of the incident as this has never happened before according to Orsted.

Sylphiette asks Perugius who is behind the Teleport incident but he responds that its not man-made and just happened by chance.

Nanahoshi theorizes that
Hitogami
 is involved with the red orb's appearance when Rudeus was 5 years old during the time he grew closer to Roxy and Sylphiette and the incident itself happening a day before Rudeus is about to sleep with Eris.

Nanahoshi also theorizes that her being summoned and Rudeus' existence is to set in motion the events for the future where Rudeus' descendants will ally with Orsted to kill Hitogami and suggests that Rudeus consult with Orsted.

Despite being protected by a strong fate, the situation of the people affecting Ariel on becoming the
Asura Kingdom
's queen has been altered from Orsted's knowledge of the original history such as:
:

Derrick Redbat
 who is supposed to persuade Perugius on backing Ariel to become queen, dies while protecting Ariel from a terminate boar and is succeeded by Syphiette.

Luke Notos Greyrat
 marrying Eris and both becoming Ariel's bodyguards who will protect her from numerous assassination attempts and eventually becoming queen does not occur.

With Eris being Ariel's bodyguard, Sauros and Philip are suppose to join Ariel's faction but this does not occur due to their deaths.

After being saved by Ariel,
Tristina Purplehorse
 is supposed to testify as a live witness against
Darius Silva Ganius
 on being kidnapped then forced to become his sex slave and causing his downfall goes missing.

Rudeus and Zanoba borrowed a section of land in Fittoa from the Boreas Family where they build a research lab that has a teleportation circle to Zanoba's Workshop since it is unlikely anyone can discover the lab and there, they created
Anne
, the first automaton of the SS Anne Series that resembles Nanahoshi.

To prepare for the upcoming return of Laplace and war he will start, Ariel issues a decree that removes Teleportation magic from being a "Forbidden Technique" and uses her influence and charisma to sway the opposition and eventually became law regardless.

Rudeus informs Cliff and the Miko of Memory that he plans to build Teleportation Circles but they are extremely troubled since the Milis Religion designates Teleportation Magic to be the ultimate forbidden technique.

Rudeus creates a large teleportation grid all over Asura Kingdom despite strong opposition of the citizens of Asura Kingdom

At the minimum, The Holy Kingdom of Millis did not allow Rudeus' plan to have teleportation magic in the country;
Cliff Grimoire
 and the
Miko of Memory
 protected him from trouble with the
Milis Religion

Although Nanahoshi did the research of the teleportation that is sponsored by Rudeus, Only Rudeus is blamed by the nobles, merchants and the priests of the Milis Religion and he become known as <The Person who broke the Taboo>.

Bell
 who lives in the Fittoa Region's countryside obtains exceedingly good results at a newly built school in Fittoa and is recommended to study at the
Asura Royal Academy
 where her village organized a fund raising campaign for her travel expenses and plans to serve under the Feudal Lord of Fittoa further the development of her village. Bell would eventually become the best friend of
Christina Greyrat
 in the academy and graduate becoming a civil official under the Feudal Lord.

Trivia

Despite the random nature of the teleportation; Rudeus and Eris, Paul and Norn, Lilia and Aisha were teleported to the same place together because they are in physical contact with each other before they are teleported.

References