This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

Monsters of the Teleportation Labyrinth using the Teleportation circles to replenish their numbers
Teleport Labyrinth in the Anime
1/2

The
Teleportation Labyrinth
 (転移の迷宮) is an S-ranked labyrinth located beneath the desert of the
Begaritt Continent
 that is accessed by a cave of a cliff north of the city of
Rapan
.

Background

"There is a theory that the
ancient demons
 gave birth to these Labyrinths and their creatures in a quest to create a paradise for themselves."

-
Perugius Dola
 to Rudeus





A group of Tarantula Deathlords guarding the Teleportation Circles



Like all Labyrinths near Rapan, the Teleportation Labyrinth is formed by ants that ate the remains of a gigantic
Behemoth
, previously slain by
North God

Kalman II
 and his group. The mutant descendants of these ants dig tunnels beneath the Behemoth's remains that eventually became Labyrinths where monsters became attracted to it because of their concentration of
Mana
 and due to the labyrinth having numerous Teleportation Circles, it became known as the Teleportation Labyrinth.

As with all Labyrinths, the Teleportation Labyrinth has its Magic Crystal located at the Seventh Floor where its monsters tend to kill or take intruders captive into the Magic Crystal where they become the "heart" of the Labyrinth that distribute Mana to all its inhabitants and allowing it to function. The mana that flows through these captives trapped in the Magic Crystal causes them to lose their memories, but their body is also infused with a mysterious power which turns them into a
Miko
 or
Cursed Ones
.

Geography





The Teleportation Labyrinth, located north of Rapan



The Teleportation Labyrinth is located north of the Rapan that takes 1 day or half day depending on how fast to travel there
 where the entrance looks nothing more than a cave on the outside and makes it look like a hole in the side of a cliff. But seeing it in person gives the sense that there is a labyrinth within it because of the unsettling air to it.






Rudeus' party preparing to enter the cave of the Teleportation Labyrinth



As such, a large clan consisting of several Adventurer
Parties
 tend to divide their group into 2 roles: The main group that explores the Labyrinth, while the second group, sometimes referred to as the support group set up camp and wait outside for emergencies or supplies. But for the case of the Teleportation Labyrinth, the support team returns to Rapan due to its closeness and prepares the supplies from there.

Book

"Yeah, it's amazing Paul. If the things written in this are real, then clearing up to the sixth floor is already easy."

Geese to Paul

Geese studying the contents of the Book for the Teleport Labyrinth
«An Exploratory Account of the Teleportation Labyrinth» Book in the Anime
Roxy reading the Book for the Teleport Labyrinth
1/3

To assist in the exploration of the Labyrinth, Rudeus borrowed a book from the
Ranoa Magic Academy
 Library titled: «An Exploratory Account of the Teleportation Labyrinth» which records the previous attempts of
adventurers
 on exploring the Labyrinth. Rudeus previously used this book to also investigate the magic circles which could give further information on the
Teleport Incident
 but due to Teleportation Magic being considered taboo, he left out details about the teleport magic circles and even consider this to be fiction or that it could be another labyrinth.
 The book contains detailed information about the Monsters on each floor including their sketch and a diagram of each Teleportation Circle and their functions whether its a one way or two way teleportation that would take days of exploring each floor with out the book otherwise.

Overview






Rudeus' party using a Teleportation Circle to transfer to the Second Floor



The Teleportation Labyrinth is a seven floor labyrinth where each floor is connected by a teleportation magic circle. The labyrinth is full of teleportation traps.

The architecture of the first three floors is similar to an ant nest, with curving tunnels, complicated passages and dead ends that is also written in the «An Exploratory Account of the Teleportation Labyrinth» but is confirmed by
Adventurers
 who previously explored the first 3 floors through trial and error. Starting from the fourth floor, the architecture is similar to the ruins of the
Dragon Tribe
.

In
K423
, The labyrinth was cleared by
Paul
,
Rudeus
,
Roxy
,
Geese
,
Elinalise
 and
Talhand
.

Floor 1

Rudeus' party exploring the First Floor
Paul Greyrat battling the Tarantula Deathlords in the First Floor
Elinalise Dragonroad battling the Tarantula Deathlords in the First Floor
1/3

The nest of the Tarantula Deathlords but there are also various smaller arachnids here that is the primary prey of the Tarantula Deathlords. The walls and ceiling have white threads stretched all around them.

Floor 2






Rudeus' party taking a break to clean their gear in the Second Floor



The place with a large quantity of Iron Crawler and Tarantula Deathlord.

Floor 3






Roxy battling a formation of Monsters in the Third Floor



Mad Skulls can be found commanding groups of Iron Crawler and Tarantula Deathlord.

Floor 4

Elinalise defeating an Armored Warrior with her Gladius
Geese charting a map for the fourth floor and notating it in the Anime
1/2

Iron Crawler and Tarantula Deathlord disappear leaving only Mad Skulls and Armored Warriors.

Floor 5

Geese burning a talfro root to repel the Devouring Devils in the Anime
1/1

And then, after you get to the fifth floor the Mad Skulls disappear leaving only Armored Warriors and Devouring Devils.

Floor 6

Geese searching for a hidden room in the Sixth Floor
Geese scouting a Teleportation Magic Circle Room in the Sixth Floor
Rudeus using Stone Cannon to uncover the hidden room
The Magic Teleportation Circle to the Seventh Floor glowing deep blood red
1/4

This floor is the nesting ground of Devouring Devils. The final room of the floor has 3 teleportation magic circles, these circles are traps, and the real magic circles that connects to the final floor can be found below a hidden stairs.

Floor 7

The Guardian of the Labyrinth laying dormant before the Magic Crystal
Floor 7 with the Teleportation Magic Circle Entrance/Exit
Rudeus' Party engaging the Manatite Hydra
Roxy and Talhand running at the sides of Floor 7
Rudeus' party battling the Hydra
Elinalise protecting Rudeus from the Hydra while Paul decapitate it
Magic Crystal shattering upon the death of the Hydra
Rudeus' party burning the remains of Paul before the corpse of the hydra
1/8

Floor 7 is the final room and the den of the Guardian of the Labyrinth, the
Manatite Hydra
 who guards the magic crystal and is believed to be the center of the Teleportation Labyrinth. The room has a rectangular shape, similar to a giant temple hall where the edge of the room is as big as a baseball field and the sides are perimetered by thick pillars with braziers on front and stairs in between them, making it a 2 platform room with the higher platform at the sides.

Zenith
 was trapped inside a magic crystal in this room which shatters after the Manatite Hydra is killed.

Monsters

The labyrinth is filled with powerful and intelligent monsters. They are familiar with the labyrinth's layout, and are capable of setting up structured ambushes using the teleportation circles in the labyrinth and setting up defensive formations to prevent their enemies from escaping.
.

See
List of Monsters in the Teleportation Labyrinth

Plot

--To be added

Trivia

Roxy
 survived for an entire month in the third floor by herself. She survived by eating the monster flesh and using water and detoxification magic.

References