The Adventurer's Guild
 (
昌険者ギルド
,

Masashi Ken-sha Girudo
)
 is the twentieth chapter of the
Mushoku Tensei

manga adaptation
.

Cover Characters

Rudeus Greyrat

Eris Boreas Greyrat

Ruijerd Superdia

Summary

While Rokari hopes Rudeus and company stay a little longer, they bid farewell to continue their journey, and Rowin gifts them funds and a sword for Eris as thanks for telling them of Roxy's well being. Curious, Rudeus asks and learns Roxy left the village 20 years ago as she was born without the Migurdian telepathy, shocking Rudeus to realize Roxy is his (mental) age of 44. After Rokari wished them well, Rowin angrily tells Rudeus to not call him father. Eatting by a campfire later on, Rudeus is thankful for the hospitality but shifts focus to how he's just standing behind his capable fighter friends Eris and Ruijurd.

As the approach the crater city of Rikarisu, Rudeus uses erath magic to give Ruijurd a stone helmet to get past the guards, on the look out for "Dead End" who Rudeus learns is actually Ruijurd. To hide his identity, Rudeus dyes Ruijurd's hair earthy red as they register at the Adventure's Guild, with the membership inside laughing at their declaration that he's the infamous Dead End. Now with his identity concealed as a Migurdian in attempt to link "Dead End" to a heroic party name, they register their team name and Eris is overjoyed to be an adventurer. As newcomers, they are slated at F-Rank at the bottom, and exit the tavern having finalized their registration. Looking at request, senior member Nokopara jokingly suggests a lost pet job for the newbies since Superds have radar vision.

Not wanting to do too much in one day, Rudeus instead has his team take their leave. However, as Ruijurd is about to get in a fight with a crass senior member, Nokopara tells his contemporary to let them be. Outside, Ruijurd is reassured by Rudeus everything is working to his plan, and Eris also reassures as Rudeus is amazing in her eyes. Confident, Ruijurd apologizes for his doubts and agrees to follow Rudeus's lead. Rudeus hugs the two in affirmation, thinking how he cannot betray their trust and devoted to finding a solution to get home. Meanwhile, Nokopara sees them from afar with a scheming smirk across his horse face.

Appearances

Characters

Rokari Migurdia

Rudeus Greyrat

Rowin Migurdia

Rosh

Ruijerd Superdia

Eris Boreas Greyrat

Nokopara

Perutoko

Skills

Regions

Others

Differences from Light Novel

Trivia

To Be Added.

Navigation