The Redhead's Hood
 (
赤毛のフード
,

Akage no Fūdo
)
 is the twenty-first chapter of the
Mushoku Tensei

manga adaptation
.

Cover Characters

Eris Boreas Greyrat

Summary

As the group stays at the Wolf Claw Inn, Eris bathes while recalling a talk she had with Ghislaine in Roa before the mana calamity. After a session in sword training, and Eris talking about developing a figure like her mother, she inquired of Ghislaine of her being strong, with the Sword King noting how Eris and Rudeus are a good team pairing. When Eris wanted Ghislaine to join her and Rudeus on adventures, Ghislaine reminded Eris that she wouldn't be around forever and imparted onto the young lady that she'd have to be strong to protect Rudeus, confident in Eris's progressing abilities.

Back in the present, wonders on Ghislaine's survival after the calamity, and worries of her adequacy in protecting Rudeus. Meeting the two outside, another Adventurer team approaches Eris with a recruitment offer she refuses (as she cannot speak Demon). When the adventurer pulls her coat, Eris brutalizes him for damaging the clothes Rudeus gave her and is about to kill one of them before Rudeus intervenes- unable to enjoy grabbing her by a breast given the situation. Once Rudeus warns the three away, Eris smacks him off and voices her frustrations from being unable to understand Rudeus conversing in Demon to not being noticed and not having Ghislaine around. After she rushes to her bed, Rudeus realizes how worried she was and goes to promise her that he'll be more mindful of her going forward so she won't feel insecure, promising to get them home to Asura safely.

Rudeus then meets Man-God again while he is asleep, poking fun at him for getting close to a young girl while also noting how Rudeus should be glad he took his advice and got a trusted partner in Ruijurd. However, Man-God came to Rudeus due to his current predicament: money. As their current finance from Rowin being used for the Inn and food, Rudeus calculates less than two weeks of funds to support the trio; finding it ironically funny that a former NEET is worrying about money. Irritated he's still with Man-God, Rudeus asks for his advice and is told to simply accept the lost pet quest. Waking up, Rudeus aims to do so for his party's sake.

But while the intent was noble, the outcome proved foreboding with Eris bloodied and Rudeus keeled to the floor as Ruijurd was engulfed in a dark aura of bloodlust.

Appearances

Characters

Eris Boreas Greyrat

Ghislaine Dedoldia
 (Flashback)

Hilda Boreas Greyrat
 (Flashback)

Philip Boreas Greyrat
 (Flashback)

Sauros Boreas Greyrat
 (Flashback)

Rudeus Greyrat

Ruijerd Superdia

Kurt

Bachirou

Gablin

Hitogami

Rowin Migurdia
 (Flashback)

Nokopara
 (Flashback)

Skills

Regions

Others

Differences from Light Novel

Trivia

To Be Added.

Navigation