The Boreas Family Greetings
 (
ボレアス流挨拶
,

Boreasu-ryū aisatsu
)
 is the ninth chapter of the
Mushoku Tensei

manga adaptation
.

Cover Characters

Rudeus Greyrat

Ghislaine Dedoldia

Summary

Easily deducing Thomas to be responsible, Philip had him arrested for his attempt top sell Eris to a lecherous noble, and has had him replaced with Alphonse. However, seeing Philip's face covered in bandages, Sauros arrived with praise for Rudeus and Alphonse informed him of Sauros's beating up Philip in an overly emotional state. Calmly, Sauros asks Rudeus to teach Eris, but stops himself from accepting as he realizing Sauros has spoiled Eris by doing things for her. Thus if Rudeus does accept, then Eris wouldn't really be learning from him if all she has to do is ask her grandfather. To ensure Eris focuses on learning, Rudeus requests that Eris directly ask for his mentorship. Although angry at Rudeus's refusal, Sauros can't argue with the logic and calls Eris down, with enough strength to nearly deafen his beastkin maids. Once she has arrived, Sauros orders Eris to ask Rudeus herself to teach her, so she stands like a cute catgirl to ask Rudeus to teach her.

Rudeus blacks out for a second thinking that didn't just happen, but finds it really did and is terrified by an otherwise cute pose as Eris's face is otherwise raging. Looking to Sauros for help, the grandfather instead fawns over his granddaughter as Philip directs her to stick out her hips more. Exasperated, Rudeus looks at the beast maids and realizes the men have an affinity for them- compared to Paul who loves large breasted women. Sauros then asks Rudeus if he accepts, since Eris took a pose of humility to ask, with Rudeus still screaming no at him. During combat training, Ghislaine voices her being impressed at Rudeus telling Sauros no and making him stop doing that to Eris.

Over the next month, Rudeus tutors Ghislaine and Eris in magic and math, while he also improves in minor margins in combat training under Ghislaine's teachings. The only progress on that front is Eris showing an aptitude in combat and beating him up. When walking by her room and hearing Eris practice her magic, Rudeus remembers his first attempt with water magic and finds Eris setting her room ablaze. Eris shows an ability for magic and combat, but struggles with mathematics and reading. When Eris voices frustration, Ghislaine talks about her old adventurer days and after the team broke up when Paul and Zenith got married, she struggled with trying to be on her own. With additional details, she summarizes that she needs to learn math and reading to not repeat her mistakes, impressing Eris to be invested and improves on her studies. As Eris improves, Rudeus can't help but think of how Roxy and Sylphy are doing. When grading Eris's improving scores, Rudeus finds she is increasingly upset, then checking the calendar does he find he has been a failure of a teacher.

Appearances

Characters

Ghislaine Dedoldia

Rudeus Greyrat

Eris Boreas Greyrat

Philip Boreas Greyrat

Alphonse

Sauros Boreas Greyrat

Eris Boreas Greyrat

Sylphiette

Lilia Greyrat

Roxy Migurdia

Skills

Regions

Others

Differences from Light Novel

Trivia

Ghislaine is ranked as Sword-King, the 4th highest rank in the Sword God Combat Style.

Navigation

Template:JuvenileP