This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!







This article is for the
Timeline
 of the
Mushoku Tensei: Jobless Reincarnation
 Series, that includes the storyline of the Original
Light Novel
,
Web Novel
, Redundancy and Old Dragon Tales.

Antiquity

More than 100,000 years ago

The age of the gods of ancient times. According to legend.

20,000 - 10,000 years ago

The God Wars

The God Wars (not the offical name) began when the first Dragon God declared war on 4 of the 6 worlds in order to search for the murderers of his wife Lunaria. Evidence pointed to a conspiracy of these four worlds that resulted in Lunaria's murder, and so the Dragon God and his five Dragon Generals began their massacre on the Beast world, followed by the Ocean World, the Heaven World and finally the Demon world. Each time, the Dragon God faced off and killed one of the Gods while his Dragon Generals committed genocide on the world populations. The Human God then opened a rift to allow the survivors of those worlds to escape into the human world.

The five Dragon Generals betray the Dragon God when he announced invading the Human World, and their battle ends in mutual defeat. The Dragon God is killed by Hitogami.

The dying Dragon God sends his son Orsted into the future to defeat Hitogami. Demon Dragon King Laplace (one of the five Dragon Generals) is given a mission by the Dragon God, “Gather knowledge on all known techniques and magic.  Archive them for my son when arrives in 10,000 years.”

Laplace escapes the collapsing Dragon World, and begins to wander the Human World as the second generation Dragon God.

The legend states that all worlds but the Human World were destroyed, but at least the Void World still exists.

10,000 - 8,000 years ago

The age of chaos. The different races in the Human World are mixed together and struggle. Eventually, each race starts to live in different parts of the world. Only the humans and demons continue to quarrel.

Laplace begins studying techniques and spells for the sake of defeating Hitogami, with the goal of one day teaching them to Orsted.

7,000 years ago

Start of the First Great Human-Demon War.

6,000 years ago

The First Great Human-Demon War is ended when the hero Ars leads his six comrades to defeat the five Demon Lords and Demon World Emperor
Kishirika Kishirisu
.
 The hero Ars then established the Asura Kingdom, the capital of which is named after him.

5,500 years ago

Humans wage war on other races and each other for a period of about 500 years.

5,000 years ago

Kishirika revives. Start of the Second Great Human-Demon War, began by Kishirika. The demons ally with the beast race and sea race, and corner the humans.

4,200 years ago

Badigadi manages to dominate the humans, becoming a key player in the war, after taking advice from Hitogami who appears in his dreams. This left the humans trapped and almost defeated.

The Golden Knight Aldebaran, with his Fighting God Armour, appears and singlehandedly turns the tide of the war in favour of the humans. At the very end, his attack punches a huge hole in the Great Continent, forming a sea and splitting it into the
Central Continent
 and
Demon Continent
.
 Falsely according to legend, this happens when Aldebaran fights Kishirika.

In actuality, the Human Hero Aldebaran had abandoned his armour and had died before this point. Advised by Hitogami, Badigadi locates the armour and becomes the Fighting God. Possessed by the armour, Badigadi kills Kishirika and then engages in a final battle against Laplace. Using the ingrained techniques of the armour, Badigadi is able to defeat Laplace, resulting in his soul to split in half. Laplace loses his memories and is split into two individuals: the Technique God Laplace who seeks to defeat a god and the Demon God Laplace who hates humans. At the same time, the Fighting God Armour was broken and fell to the bottom of the ocean, which was just created by the separating of the two continents.

Whilst both Aldebaran and Badigadi were Fighting Gods, history mistakes them for the same person. Badigadi was the one who split the continents using the power of the Fighting God Armour fighting against Laplace, and not by Aldebaran fighting Kishirika.

The Second Great Human-Demon War ends with the splitting of the continents.

4,200 - 1,000 years ago

A time of peace. Humans gradually segregate demons onto the Demon Continent and blockade it. The demons struggle for resources, and their population drops.
   Kishirika revives again at some point during this period.

1,000 years ago

Demon God Laplace is reborn. He unites the demons and subjugates the Demon Continent.
  There are some demons, such as Badigadi and Kishirika, who do not join Laplace. They become a faction known as the Moderate Faction.

500 years ago

Start of the Laplace War, fuelled by the Demon God's hatred for humans. Laplace persuades the sea race and beast race, and attacks the Central Continent. Quickly gains control of the north and south part, and invades the west from both directions.
  Some time after this, before the end of the war, Laplace gives spears to the Superd Warriors, which some accept. Crazed by the cursed spears, the Superd start attacking family, friends and foe alike, resulting in the deaths of the majority of Superd and Kishirika (again). This villainises the Superd, who go down in history as traitorous monsters, though people are generally unaware of the curse that afflicted them.

About 400 years ago (K0)

The Seven Heroes persuade the sea race to lift the blockade of the sea, and ally with the beast race by holding hostage the children of their heads of families. The last remaining human country, the Asura Kingdom, put all their efforts into a final assault. The Seven Heroes led the Millis Holy Order of knights and the beast race in an attack on Laplace's stronghold. In the final battle, four of the Seven Heroes die, leaving Dragon God Urupen, the first generation North God
Kalman I
, and the Armoured Dragon King
Perugius
. Laplace's close allies are annihilated and Laplace is sealed.
Ruijerd Superdia
 also aids the Heroes during the final battle. The war ends. According to legend (Citation Required).  Ruijerd's role was mentioned by himself and Perugius.

Armoured King Years

The end of the Laplace war marked the start of the Armoured Dragon Calendar (甲龍歴). Years are
K[year]
, the K for Kou (Armoured).

K100

The
Dragon King Kingdom
 Rises to power in the south of the Central Content after driving out the King Dragons which resided in the mountains. The nation is named after the aforementioned monsters.

K200

The
Shirone Kingdom
 allies with the
Dragon King Kingdom
 as its vassal state.

K330

in the Winter, Start of Orsted's time loop. He appears in a nameless forest in the northern part of the Central Continent.

K373

Fall
Roxy Migurdia
 is born.

K387

Roxy Migurdia leaves her village.

K388

Fall
Paul Greyrat
 is born.

K390

Spring
Zenith Greyrat
 is born.

K400

Paul Greyrat leaves home at the age of twelve.

K401

Roxy enrols in
Ranoa Magic University
.

K405

Eris Boreas Greyrat
 is born.

K407

Rudeus Greyrat
 is born.

Sylphiette
 is born in the fall.

The Holy Beast
 is born.

Linia Dedoldia
 and
Pursena Adoldia
 are born.

Volume 1 (Holy Beast mentioned in volume 19, Linia and Pursena turn 15 in volume 8)
Source for Sylphy
 -

K408

Rudeus learns the written language. He begins to read books.

K409

Relying on a magic textbook, Rudeus begins to use magic. He notices that his total amount of
mana
 is being increased. He learns incantationless magic.

Kishirika Kishirisu revives (again).

K410

Rudeus meets Roxy and begins to get taught magic by her. He also begins to get taught swordsmanship by Paul.

K412

Rudeus is led out of the house by Roxy. He becomes a Water Saint-class magician. Roxy goes off on her own. He meets Sylphiette.

A red orb appears in mid-air inside the Boreas estate.

K413

Rudeus notices Sylphiette is a girl (starts to call her Sylphy).

Zenith and
Lilia
 become pregnant. Rudeus becomes respected by Lilia.
Aisha
 and
Norn
 are born.

K414

Rudeus is forcibly sent to the house of
Boreas Greyrat
 in the
Fittoa Region
. He meets
Ghislaine
 and Eris.

K415

Rudeus notices the red orb floating in mid-air on the top floor of the Boreas estate.

K417

Rudeus is given
Aqua Heartia
 as a present on his 10th birthday.

The next day, the
Teleportation Incident
 occurs in the Fittoa region, originating from the red orb.

Rudeus and Eris teleport to the
Demon Continent
.

Sylphiette teleports to the Asura Kingdom.

Nanahoshi
 is summoned.

Roxy heads to the Demon Continent in search of Rudeus
, and joins up with
Elinalise
 and
Talhand
.

Rudeus receives his first advice from Hitogami. He meets
Ruijerd Superdia
 and begins efforts to redeem the Superd tribe. He founds the adventurer party
Dead End
.

Sylphy becomes Princess
Ariel
's companion as the guardian Fitz.

K418

Rudeus accepts an
eye of foresight
 from Demon Emperor
Kishirika Kishirisu
.

He saves captured beast race children and the Holy Beast.


Sauros Boreas Greyrat
 is held responsible for failures after the
Teleportation Incident
.

He meets
Geese
. He passes the Great Forest's rainy season in the beast race village.

He reunites and reconciles with Paul in the Holy Country Milis.

Roxy Migurdia
 (and the rest of her party) meets with her parents for the first time in decades

Princess Ariel is driven out of the kingdom of Asura.

K419

Rudeus reunites with Aisha and Lilia in the kingdom of Shirone.


He is confined by
Pax
 and saved by
Zanoba
.

He is almost killed by the Dragon God Orsted at the Red Dragon Mountains.

Sylphy enrolls in Ranoa Magic University along with Ariel and
Luke
.

K420

Rudeus returns to Fittoa
, and has his first time with Eris. She parts ways with him the next morning to train at the Holy Land of the Sword.

Roxy meets Kishirika in the demon continent and thanks to her, finds the localization of Zenith Greyrat in a labyrinth in the Bergarit Continent. Elinalise Dragonroad travels with the demon King
Badigadi
 to give the news of Rudeus Greyrat, Meanwhile Roxy and Tallhand travel to Millis to give the news to Paul.

After the departure of Eris, Rudeus decides to travel to the northern part of the central continent. to find his mother Zenith, on the way he meets the party
Counter Arrow
.

Rudeus and Counter Arrow stop at Rosenburg.

The day after, Counter Arrow propose to Rudeus to do a quest with them.

The next day, they set off to Lake Cucuru.

After three days of travel, they arrive at night and Rudeus saves the party by killing the Grizzly Bears.

After another three days of travel, they come back to Rosenburg.

For three months, Rudeus does exercises to maintain his physique and joins numerous parties in order to make his name well-known.

One day he sets off with Counter Arrow to the Gaulgau ruins.

After three days of travel they arrive. Counter Arrow saves Rudeus. Short confrontation between Stepped Leader and the party.

After three days of travel, they return to Rosenburg.

After three months, it's been 6 months since Rudeus had gone there, he heals a child during work. He sees Counter Arrow who announce the death of Mimir and disappearance of Sara. Rudeus arrives at the place of disappearance at night, fights the Buffalo, then the Treant, that has Sara, and saves Sara.

Sara and Rudeus arrive the next day in the morning

K421

Six months after that, it's been a year since Rudeus arrive at Rosenberg and he becomes famous as "Quagmire" in the northern part of the Central continent.

One day he talks with Sara after a mission, who asks him to accompany her to buy weapon, in other words, a date.

The next day, they go on a date. Rudeus discovers he is impotent. Sara runs away, claiming she was returning his favor for saving her, Rudeus drinks for the first time, meets
Soldat
 who brings him to a brothel.

The next morning, Sara slaps Rudeus, after bad-mouthing her while drunk, who decides to go with Stepped Leader leaves Rosenburg for dungeons. Sara tries but fails to find Rudeus in order to make apologize for her over-reaction.

Rudeus and Stepped Leader go to the third biggest city of Neris, Gyuranza and Caelrion at the edge of the Ranoa Kingdom.

K422

Rudeus, Stepped Leader, Rod Knight, Iron Cluster Corps, The Drunkard's Nonsense travel to kills a Red Wyrm. Rudeus does it alone.

Rudeus becomes even more famous thanks to this and there is a theatre play about it.

Elinalise Dragonroad
 finds
Rudeus
 and tells him the news about his mother.

One week later, he receives an invitation to become a special student from the Ranoa Magic University's Vice Principal
Jinas
, Hitogami advises him to go.

Three months later, he heads for the university after waiting for the snow to thaw and says goodbye to Stepped Leader.

One month later he enrolls in the Ranoa Magic University. During his first day he meets with
Silent Fitts
, not recognizing her. He meets
Linia Dedoldia
,
Pursena Adoldia
, and
Cliff Grimoire
 during homeroom. He reunites with
Zanoba
. He's unjustly accused of being a panty thief but Silent Fitts helps him.

One month later, Silent Fitts asks him to join his research on teleportation.

The day after, Zanoba starts his figure-making training, but doesn't have the precision needed.

A month later,
Zanoba
 and Rudeus buy
Julie
.

The month after, Rudeus, with the help of Zanoba, kidnaps Linia and Pursena in order to punish them for breaking Zanoba's Roxy figurine.

He frees them the next day, and they start calling him "boss".

Elinalise
 and
Cliff
 become lovers
, Demon Lord
Badigadi
 goes to Sharia and enrols into the Ranoa Magic University
 and
Rudeus
 meets
Nanahoshi
, acquainting himself with everyone.   Volume 7-8       -

K423

Rudeus discovers Fitts's identity. He and Sylphy become lovers. He buys and prepares a house, then marries Sylphy.

Aisha and Norn settle into Sharia. Aisha becomes Rudeus's maid. Norn enrolls in the Ranoa Magic University and moves into the dorm.

Rudeus ignores Hitogami's advice and goes to the
Begaritt Continent
 with Elinalise. Paul dies and Zenith is rescued, but is believed to have lost her memories. He reunites with Roxy. He proposes to Roxy.

K424

Sylphy and Rudeus' first child,
Lucy
 is born.

Roxy and Rudeus get married.

Rudeus becomes a Water King-tier magician.

Elinalise and Cliff get married.

K425

Founding of the "Norn Greyrat Public Fan Club". Linia and Pursena graduate. Rudeus becomes a fourth year student. Nanahoshi summons a seedless watermelon from Earth.

Rudeus goes to the Sky Fortress to ask Armored Dragon King Perugius about treating Zenith. He goes to the Demon Continent to ask Kishirika about how to treat Nanahoshi's Drine disease. He fights the immortal Demon Lord
Atofe
. He learns of Hitogami's plans after meeting future Rudeus, and disposes of the mouse with magic stone disease. He is coerced into battling Orsted by Hitogami and with the help of Zanoba and Cliff creates the magic armor. He reunites with Eris. Orsted defeats him and he becomes Orsted's subordinate.

He marries Eris. He summons the Holy Beast from the Great Forest, and named him Leo. Orsted orders him to guard Princess Ariel, who ascends to the throne of Asura. He begins training to protect himself and his family.   Volume 14-18       -

K426

Clive Grimoire
 and
Lara Greyrat
 is born.   Vol 19   Chapter 190    -

K427

Linia and Pursena return to Sharia. Zanoba briefly returns to Shirone with Rudeus and company, and becomes Orsted's subordinate.
Ars Greyrat
 is born.   Volume 19-20       -

K428

Cliff and Zanoba graduate. Rudeus begins to gather allies to prepare for Laplace's reincarnation.   Intermission Volume       -

K429

Rudeus graduates. Cliff returns to Milishion with Rudeus and company.

Sieghart Greyrat
 is born
, Perugius gives him the second name "Saladin".

K430

Last Battle against Hitogami apostles in Biheiril Kingdom.

Death of
Geese Nukadia
.

K431

Lily Greyrat
 is born.
Christina Greyrat
 is born.

Ruijerd and Norn married.

K432

Luicelia Superdia
 is born.

Isolte
 and
Doga
 marry.

K433

Rudeus and Zanoba build a doll that looks like Nanahoshi.
Kalman III
 takes
Sieghart Greyrat
 as disciple.

K434

Vacation of Rudeus and his family in Milis Continent.

K436

Rudeus, Eris, Orsted and Kalman III go to Holy land of The sword to meet Sword God
Jino Britts
.   Redundancy.

K439

Aisha Greyrat and Ars Greyrat start a relationship. Redundancy The Moment Aisha Greyrat Stop Being a Maid Nanahoshi, Redundancy chapter 25-26. The originals chapters were deleted, but this still happen off-screen. - Although it is no longer considered cannon

K441

Rudeus sees a future where his descendants seal Hitogami.

K442

Engagement between Lucy Greyrat and Clive Grimoire.      Rudeus, Redundancy chapter 26.

K447

Sieghart Greyrat leaves the house to help
Pax Jr
.

K448

Engagement between Christina Greyrat and
Edward Anemoi Asura
.

Lara Greyrat and Leo leave the House.

K459

Zenith dies.

K476

Ferris Greyrat is born.

K479

Eris Greyrat dies.

K481

Rudeus Greyrat dies.

K500

Akito Takehara is summoned.

Notes: The years after 430 (Redundancy / Jobless ) it's an approximate, using the following events as reference:

The age of Rudeus' Children.

Rudeus sends his children to study when they turn 7 years old. The Studies of Ranoa last 7 years and the Studies of Asura last 3 years.

Orsted's Knowledge of the Future (Alternative Timeline)

K457

Pax succeeds in a coup d'état, abolishes the monarchy and founds the Shirone Republic.

K507

Laplace is revived. The exact year seems to not be fixed. If the Shirone Republic exists, he's the son of a descendent of one of Pax's subordinates.

K527

Final battle against Laplace. End of Orsted's time loop (shortly after the final battle with Laplace)

References