This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

"It's a pleasure to meet you. I'm Timothy, a magician. My specialty is offensive magic and I fight on the backline. Technically, I'm also the leader of this party."

Timothy to Rudeus

Timothy
 is the Leader of the
Adventurer
 party
Counter Arrow
 but mostly lets his wife,
Suzanne
 to be in charge of commanding the party.

Appearance

Timothy has long shoulder-length hair, wears a gray scarf and brownish-red robes. He also has a surprisingly sized "magic wand".

Personality

Timothy has a kind and soft spoken personality and is always seen with a smile on his face. He would try to get along with people around him, and would face hostile people with a smile if he deemed necessary.

Being an experienced
Adventurer
, he has a habit of throwing a free booze party to earn the favor of locals upon completing a big quest in a new place, so that they could prevent themselves being targeted by jealous adventurers
.

Background






Timothy and Suzanne meeting Sara



Timothy is born in a nameless village and moves to
Sharia
 where he studies at the
Ranoa Magic Academy
 and became a
Magician
. Timothy eventually becomes an Adventurer where she meets
Suzanne
 after moving to
Asura Kingdom
.

Timothy and Suzanne was part of another party when they rescued
Sara
 from a monster attack in the Milbots Region and brought her into the party along with
Mimir
 and
Patris
 who survived the monster attack and the five formed the new party
Counter Arrow
.

By the time they achieved B-rank, there was hardly any work left around the center of the
Asura Kingdom
 and they decide to move to a more challenging location to go north or south. They decide to go north which was also Timothy's birthplace and he knew the land.

Plot

Timothy and his party are travelling to the northern region of
Central Continent
 where they first meet
Rudeus Greyrat
 who is apparently depressed. Their party eventually assists him to complete a Rank A mission after being convinced by Suzanne.

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Power and Abilities

Timothy casting Flame Thrower in the Anime
Timothy using Ex-Flame
1/2

Timothy is a magician who specializes in offensive magic and mainly uses Fire
 and Earth magic
.

Equipment

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Achievements

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Quotes

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Trivia

One of the two characters that have the same
name
.

References