This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

"Regardless, we'll be able to remove High Minister Darius so long as we have Tristina. With him gone, we won't have any trouble with the rest of the opposition."

Orsted
 to
Rudeus Greyrat
,
Light Novel Volume 16
, Chapter 1

Tristina Purplehorse
 (
トリスティーナ

・
パープルホース

)
 is a daughter of the Purplehorse House, a noble family in the
Asura Kingdom
 and was sold to Darius as a slave when she was a child. Eventually she was sold to the bandits and became the leader's mistress under the alias Triss.

Appearance

Tristina is blond woman with short hair and light blue eyes. She is very well endowed, rivaling Eris in the chest department.

Personality

Even though Tristina was born as a noble, she became aggressive and vulgar like her fellow bandits, while having an indifferent attitude towards the events that happened in her life. However, she didn't forget her relationship with Ariel and kneels down before her on their reunion. She was also capable of performing in refined noble etiquette when necessary.

Background

Tristina is the daughter of the Purplehorse house. She first met then Princess
Ariel Anemoi Asura
 on her five year old birthday party. When she was 8 years old she was secretly sold to the Minister of Asura
Darius Silva Ganius
 and forced to become his sex slave, while the public was told she was kidnapped.

However, after
Teleport Incident
, Darius sold most of his slaves, including Tristina, who was sold to the thieves group. She later managed to obtain her freedom, but remained a thief known as Tina Triss.





Tristina Purplehorse meeting Ariel, Rudeus, and the others for the first time.



Plot

Orsted gives Rudeus his first mission to make Ariel the next Asura Kingdom queen. On their plan, Tristina is needed to ensure the mission can be completed. Rudeus establishes contact with the thieves group, successfully requests a smuggling job from them through the communication password provided by Orsted and establishes contact with Tristina with her code name "Striped Pattern Acorn".

Ariel recognize her as the daughter of the Purplehorse house. Tristina then reveals her past after she was missing from becoming Darius' sex slaves to being sold to a gang of bandits in the border. In tears, Ariel swears that she will bring down Darius and asks her to testify. After giving it thought, Tristina decides to help her to expose Darius for his crimes, and help the group in his travel towards Asura Capital thus becoming Ariel's companion. In the Venue of Ariel, she appeared as the daughter of the Purplehorse house, where his father recognize her and testify that Darius kidnapped her.

After Ariel becomes queen, Tristina returns to the nobility and one of Ariel's attendants but still maintains her contact with the thieves group in case of Ariel's need to broker deals from behind the scenes or equivalent back door jobs.

Power and Abilities

Thief

Tristina is trained as a thief during her time with the bandits group thus making it her business of knowing the names and appearance of dangerous people. During their journey to the Asura Kingdom's capital, Tristina also gathers information on the the location of Darius's private army and movements of
Auber Corvette
 at Ariel's request.

The bandits group handles jobs that include information gathering, smuggling, search requests, slave trades and assassination requests. To make a job request with the thieves group, one must enter their territory in a forest in the border of the Asura Kingdom and communicate with passwords for the corresponding request otherwise they operate as highwaymen on those trespassing their territory.

Smuggler

Tristina is also trained as a smuggler. As such, she has knowledge of uncharted roads throughout the Asura Kingdom without the need to pass checkpoints and has contacts with all the hideouts to house their goods being slaves or otherwise.

Equipment

Purplehorse Ring

A ring with a beautiful amethyst gem. On the amethyst, there is an engraved horse and is used for someone from the Purplehorse House to prove kinship.

Achievements

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Quotes

Tristina: “When you're in this business, information is everything. Knowing the name and appearance of a dangerous person."

Rudeus: "I'm not as dangerous as it sounds."

Tristina: "Oh, that much is clear. We understand. Though the name Rudeus isn't that famous, 『Quagmire』 on the other hand is well known on the street. The woman over there is also known as 『
Mad Sword King
』. The Beast woman over there, isn't she 『
Black Wolf
』. Is that right?"

Tristina: "W-why is Ariel-sama ... At a place like this...?"

Ariel: "I came back in response to the information that father was sick, but... apparently my brother didn't welcome my return very much."

Tristina: "Oh, I see. ... So in an attempt to cross the border safely, you're making contact with us."

Trivia

In Orsted's previous loops, he notes that Tristina is the third person needed for Ariel to become queen and is the key person in bringing down Darius, one of
Grabell Zafin Asura
's main backer.

In Future Rudeus's Timeline, Rudeus met the thief Triss and she helped smuggle Rudeus while he was a fugitive.

References: