True Feelings
 is the 64th chapter of the
Mushoku Tensei

manga adaptation
.

Cover Characters

Rudeus Greyrat

Cliff Grimoire

Elinalise Dragonroad

Summary

A week passed since Rudeus introduced Elinalise to Cliff and its time for the Monthly homeroom, only hoping that Cliff don't end traumatic like in his case. When he enters the classroom, he finds them flirting and receives the news that they are now dating. Cliff even knowing the circumstance of Elinalise and her curse, he proposes to her and promises to find a cure for her. Rinia after seeing them proposes to Rudeus to start to going out, but he disclosed to the classroom that he is impotent. Rinia ask if he spent his first night with a terrible woman, but he angrily defends Eris and still thinks that is his fault that she left him.

Searching for information in the library, Rudeus still hopes to finds a cure for his heart and impotence, Fitz arrive and tells him all the information that she was able to find, Rudeus tells him with a smile that he enjoys the time that they spend together, Fitz finds that had a chance to disclose her identity but is unable to do it.

After departing from Rudeus, Ariel and Luke finds her, in a conversation in the dormitories, Ariel is irritated that Rudeus  don't remember her, but Sylphy tells them that she still hasn't disclosed her identity because she was afraid of his answer. Ariel tells her that she can continue to approach him at her own pace. Now resting in her Room, Sylphy thinks about her love for Rudeus, and she doesn't want other women near him, but that Rudeus' smile was aimed for Fitz, and if she stopped being Fitz, she won't able to help her friends.

Summer arrives in Sharia, Rudeus is still searching for information about the metastasis event with Fitz, but the information is sparse and feels that he has arrived at a dead end, he asked himself if he is going to able to find a cure for his sickness. Meanwhile in the middle of the mating season of the beast Race, Nina Farion arrives at the Magic university of Ranoa and Badigadi is running to full speed, both wanting to meet Rudeus.

Appearances

Characters

Rudeus Greyrat

Cliff Grimoire

Elinalise Dragonroad

Rinia Dedorudia

Pursena Adorudia

Zanoba Shirone

Julie

Eris Boreas Greyrat
 (Flashback)

Fitz

Ariel Anemoi Asura

Luke Notos Greyrat

Nina Farion

Badigadi

Troubador

Skills

None

Regions

Sharia

Ranoa Magic Academy

Others

Differences from Light Novel

To be added

Trivia

To be added

Navigation