Turning Point
 (
ターニングポイント
,

Tāningu Pointo
)
 is the sixteenth chapter of the
Mushoku Tensei

manga adaptation
.

Cover Characters

Rudeus Greyrat

Ghislaine Dedoldia

Eris Boreas Greyrat

Summary

At the start of a new day, Rudeus meets with Ghislaine and Eris as he promised to show them his Water Saint level magic. After an awkward hello with Eris, Rudeus inquires about a red orb that floats over Roa, as Ghislaine had been curious also. As it appeared five years earlier and nothing has occurred, Sauros and Ghislaine deemed it to be harmless and let it be, so the trio board the carriage. As townsfolk greet Rudeus riding by, Ghislaine reminisces on how Rudeus has grown in three years, as well as Eris having grown since his arrival. Even after teaching Ghislaine reading, writing and math, the people in Roa have come to accept Rudeus on their own, as Rudeus have become a respectable teacher. Whilst Eris agrees, Rudeus thinks how he has changed since reincarnating and wonders how his teacher, Roxy, is doing. In Shirone Kingdom, Roxy's "student" Prince Pax finds her letters from Rudeus and, thinking he's her lover, threatens to assassinate him if she doesn't become his woman; unfazed, Roxy corrects his misconception and welcomes him to try. When comparing the pathetic Pax to the prodigious Rudeus in her mind, Roxy sees the mana pooling over Fittoa and worries of Rudeus's safety.

Far from Roa, Rudeus displays his magic skills with his new staff, finding it magnifies his spells 2-5 times with the standard mana input, and thanks Eris for the gift. As Rudeus starts the chant for Cumulonimbus, he stops as he notices the sky change. As Ghislaine can see the mana pooling over the city, her plan to get the children away is interrupted by the arrival of Almanfi, servant to Perugius. Initially believing Rudeus to be the cause of the mana anomaly, he seizes attempts to kill him hearing Ghislaine's sworn title of Sword King. When Rudeus attempts to ask for more information, the red orb swirls with mana as an unknown person inside awakens. The resulting energies are sent to ground and everyone, from House Boreas to Rudeus's family in Buena Village, are caught in a mana disaster with the epicenter in Roa. As Almanfi escapes and Ghislaine is engulfed, Rudeus holds onto a frightened Eris as the region is wiped off the map. Arriving in an unknown space, Rudeus finds himself in his original form and falls in a depression begging any who can hear him to not let it be so. In the physical world, Rudeus's body is found by a Superd man.

Appearances

Characters

Rudeus Greyrat

Ghislaine Dedoldia

Eris Boreas Greyrat

Pax Shirone

Roxy Migurdia

Almanfi

Sauros Boreas Greyrat

Hilda Boreas Greyrat

Philip Boreas Greyrat

Paul Greyrat

Norn Greyrat

Lilia Greyrat

Aisha Greyrat

Zenith Greyrat

Sylphiette

Ruijerd Superdia

Skills

Regions

Others

Differences from Light Novel

Trivia

To Be Added.

Navigation

Template:JuvenileP