This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

Urupen
 (
ウルペン
,

Urupen
)
 is a former Dragon God and one of the three heroes who helped vanquish
Laplace
. He is described as the weakest Dragon God but became the (Supposed) strongest after founding the Saint Dragon fighting style.

Appearance

Like every Dragon Race, he has silver hair and golden eyes. Rudeus describes his portrait as Half-human looking.

Personality

N/A

Background

Was known as the weakest Dragon God in history, due to his excessively small mana pool and therefore low ability for combat, until he founded the Saint Dragon fighting style, which utilizes the ultimate technique "Saint Dragon Battle Aura". Left behind notes on this fighting style, which
Orsted
 found and used to teach himself, and eventually his disciple, 7th ranked world power, "Quagmire"
Rudeus
.

Plot

N/A

Power and Ability

Saint Dragon Style

Fighting style/Martial art developed to minimize mana usage in battle to it's utmost fraction. Combining spells and movement along with a thinner, but more solid
Battle Aura
 in the form of the Saint Dragon Style ultimate technique, Saint Dragon Battle Aura.

Disturb Magic (Ran Ma)

Disturb Magic cancels an opponent's magic by disrupting the magic and causing it to never take shape and scatter. Disturb Magic only targets one part of the body.

Equipment

N/A

Achievements

He assisted
Perugius Dola
 and
Kalman I
 in defeating the Demon God
Laplace
.

Founded the Saint Dragon Style school

Creator of the Disturb Magic

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Quotes

N/A

Trivia

He was known as the strongest Dragon God after founding the Saint Dragon Style (Which is definitely false)

He is one of the three heroes who helped vanquish the Demon God.

He and
Kalman I
 rescued a young
Perugius Dola
 from a deadly situation involving immortal demon king
Atoferatofe

He was known as the most genius Dragon God of all time.