The “Nether King" Vita is a slime like creature that lived in the labyrinth "Netherworld" of the Divine Continent. He is one of
Hitogami
's apostles participated in the final battle against
Rudeus
.

Appearance

Vita is a pile of blue slime.

Personality

Vita was eager to gain new experiences, which almost resulted in his demise twice. When he infested and controlled a demon lord, he was drunk with power and committed various atrocities. After Death God Laxus killed his host and made it his life goal to hunt him down, he was so afraid of Laxus that he was content with hiding in the labyrinth for the rest of his life.

Despite being somewhat opportunistic, he had his sense of gratitude and was willing to return the favor he received. Despite recognizing Hitogami as a malevolent god, he was still willing to help him to defeat Rudeus when called for help.

Background

He was a enemy of the
Death God Laxus
,
Hitogami
 helps him to escape to the
Divine Continent
 labyrinth
Netherworld
.

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Plot

He was one of the Hitogami's apostles in last battle in Biheiril Kingdom.

When he tried to use his illusion techniques against Rudeus, he was killed by The Bone Ring of
Laxus
, a ring made by the Death God Laxus to counter him.

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Power and Abilities

Mind Control

He can read the memories of his enemies, predict the future that might have occurred and blend it with the desires of his opponent, putting them into an endless illusion.

By splitting off part of his own body and inserting them into people, he can control many people at the same time and even halt a disease outbreak.

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Achievements

He was able to threaten and control the last group of
Superd
 race in
Biheiril Kingdom
, including
Ruijerd
.

Quotes

To Rudeus:

“.......No, that’s not it. I had you completely under the illusion. Certainly, the effect was shallow because of your special spiritual body, but that much would never break the illusion.”

Trivia

By his own words, he was the most powerful slime of the slime race.