This article
lacks information
 and requires expansion. Please
expand this page
 to include missing information to help improve the article.

Information

Summary

Chapter 155: Diary - First Part.

Rudeus reads the diary from his future self, which described the following events. Roxy became infected with Magic Stone disease, which was identified by Cliff and his Eye of Identification. This can only be healed with God rank detoxification. So, Cliff, Zanoba and Rudeus go to the Holy Kingdom of Milis using teleport magic circles to get the book with God Class Detoxification chants. Unfortunately, this book is within a cathedral that cannot be entered unless you are archbishop level. They decide to steal the book but are caught. Cliff dies during the battle and the magic teleporting circle that they used is destroyed. They also become wanted men in the Milis region. By the time Rudeus and Zanoba arrive home, Roxy was already half crystalized and had died. Elinalise is informed of Cliff's death, and leaves town while heavily pregnant. Rudeus then becomes depressed due to Roxy's death and dependent on alcohol. He begins neglecting Sylphy. Sylphy then leaves with Ariel who has returned to the Kingdom of Asura. Rudeus then decides to chase after Sylphy by following her to Asura. During his travels, he frequently runs into Eris. She is unable to properly express her feeling towards Rudeus and so just hits him. Rudeus discovers that Ariel has returned to Asura in order to gather an army to perform a coup d'etat. This fails however, and so Ariel, Sylphy, and Luke all die.

Chapter 156: Diary - Second Part.

Rudeus continues to read the diary from his future self, which described the following events. After Sylphy's death, Rudeus spent more time going to brothels. He also frequently ran into Eris, who also was living in Sharia. Rudeus continues to have mixed feelings about Eris. The Milis Church put a bounty on the heads of Rudeus and Zanoba due to their exploits from stealing the God Class detoxification chant book. Zanoba completes his automaton research. He is able to create essentially a robot that looks like Sylphy and acts like her as well. Rudeus ends up destroying this robot. Zanoba ultimately mass produces his robots. Rudeus develops a hatred for Hitogami. He vows to get stronger in order to kill Hitogami. Throughout this process, he loses touch with his family; only Aisha stays in touch. To augment his physical strength, he and Zanoba develop fully body armour similar to his prosthetic hand, which Rudeus can augment with magic to improve his physical strength.

Future Rudeus continues to work on his magic over the years, developing gravity magic, electricity magic, voice magic. However, he becomes a bad person; he would frequently get into arguments, do whatever he wanted, and occasionally raped women. Rudeus continued to run into Eris, and so he begins to falsely suspect that she is affiliated with Hitogami. Rudeus continues to try to gather more information about Hitogami by questioning beings who are long-lived. He ends up trying to speak to Atofe, but ends up fighting her and her imperial guard, including Moore. During the battle, he becomes careless and is saved by Eris, but then she is killed as a result. After Eris' death, Ghyslaine explains to Rudeus that Eris has loved him all this time and had followed him around for this reason. Ghylaine blames Rudeus for Eris' death.

Years pass, and Zanoba dies, killed by the Order of the Temple. Julie, Ginger, and Aisha are killed as well. With this, Rudeus no longer has any living loved ones. There was no mention in the diary of the fate of Lucy, Norn or Lilia. Through his travels, Rudeus discovers the nature of this world, which is that it shaped like a cube, with six sides: Dragon world, Human world, Demon world, Beast world, Ocean world, Sky world. The interior of the die is the Void World, where Hitogami resides. Rudeus learns that in order to travel to the Void World, one must collect the 5 ancient Dragon Race treasures. However, collecting all 5 treasures turns out to be impossible within his lifespan. Rudeus then learns how to travel to the past and he decides to go to the past to correct his mistakes. The diary then ends here.

Chapter 157: Resolve.

After finishing reading his future self's diary, Rudeus has a discussion with Sylphy and Roxy. He vaguely reveals that someone has shown him the future in which a bad person would cause terrible things to happen to his family. Rudeus then broaches the subject of adding Eris to their polygamous relationship. Sylphy and Roxy initially object, since they know that Eris broke Rudeus' heart, which resulted in his erectile dysfunction. Rudeus reassures them that he now knows that this was actually a misunderstanding. Both Sylphy and Roxy tentatively agree to accepting Eris, depending on how well Rudeus' and Eris' are able to reconcile in their meeting together.

Rudeus then falls asleep, and he sees Hitogami in the white void. Hitogami is initially extremely frustrated at the fact that future Rudeus has disrupted Hitogami's plans to kill Rudeus' family. Hitogami reports that Orsted is trying to kill Hitogami, but cannot do so alone. However, Rudeus and his descendants are not affected by Orsted's curse, which cause all beings to hate Orsted. This means that Rudeus' descendants may end up assisting Orsted and kill Hitogami. Furthermore, Rudeus and his descendants have 'strong fate', which means that Hitogami has difficulty with changing their fate. So, because Rudeus and his descendants have strong fate and may end up helping Orsted to kill Hitogami, Hitogami tries to kill Rudeus' descendants to prevent his own ultimate death. Rudeus tells Hitogami that he will do anything for him if he is able to save his family. Hitogami therefore suggests that if Rudeus wants to save his family, he needs to kill Orsted.

Rudeus then wakes up. He vows to kill Orsted to save his family from Hitogami.

Chapter 158: Nanahoshi's Hypothesis.

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Chapter 159: Letter Arrives.

Eris gets ready to leave the Holy Land of the Sword to meet up with Rudeus in Ranoa, who she hasn't been in contact for many years. Just prior to departing, she receives a letter from Rudeus. The letter describes how Rudeus initially thought Eris had rejected him, but he now knows this was a misunderstanding and that she actually loves him. Rudeus informs Eris in this letter that he currently has two wives, but is willing to accept Eris has his third wife. Eris' two friends argue over whether Rudeus is an asshole or not. Rudeus' letter also included a post script, which stated that he planned to challenge Orsted to battle, with the caveat that he may not survive. Eris becomes excited at this, and she and Ghylaine head off toward Rudeus.

Chapter 160: Preparation.

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Chapter 161: Preparation Complete.

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Chapter 162: Quagmire vs Dragon God.

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Chapter 163: Mad Dog King vs Dragon God.

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Chapter 164: Eris Greyrat - First Part.

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Chapter 165: Eris Greyrat - Second Part.

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.