This article
lacks information
 and requires expansion. Please
expand this page
 to include missing information to help improve the article.

Information

Summary

Chapter 176: Departure Towards Asura Kingdom.

The Group of Ariel, Sylphiette, Luke, Elmore, Kleene.  Rudeus, Eris and
Ghislaine
 leave Sharia, and take a teletransportation circle to Chaos Breaker. After greeting Perugius, they take a magic circle that transported them in a ruin near the Red Dragon’s Upper Jaw. Because it was almost the night, the group rest near the road

On Rudeus's patrol turn, he goes into the forest  and meet Orsted that is following the group to report the events of the days, Orsted say that the forest of the Red Dragon’s Upper Jaw it was the most likely place that Darius sent his soldiers to kill Ariel and The North Emperor
Auber Corvette
 may lead it. Talking how Luke may be a apostle, Orsted say that they stop being apostles after the prediction is fulfilled or not, after they conversation, Rudeus return to the camp.

Chapter 177: Red Dragon's Upper Jaw.

The group is reaching to the forest of the Red Dragon’s Upper Jaw, reaching to the forest, that by Orsted advice, that was the most probable place for a ambush. The group stop for a moment arriving at a place where Ariel's group was ambushed when she was fleeing to Ranoa and pray for the people that she lost.

The next day the group is ambushed by a group of soldiers, Ghislaine, Eris and Sylphiette are fighting meanwhile Luke is protecting the carriage and Rudeus is in the rear, using his Eyes of Foresight to see the situation, waiting if Auber try to do a surprise attack to them. In the middle of the fight, a man comes and introduces himself as the North King
Wii Taa
 and challenge Ghislaine to a duel, because his polished armor with the sun affects Ghislaine's vision, she is having problem to fight him, and Rudeus decides to support her with a Mud Rain, countering the fighting style of Wii Taa. Ghislaine take the opportunity and deal a serious injury to him.

After helping Ghislaine, Rudeus looks the rear and finds that Auber appeared from a hole in the road, Auber try to kill Rudeus, but he use the Zarif hand as a rocket, repelling him. After Ghislaine, Eris, Sylphi arrives, Auber and the group decides to retreat. Rudeus see that Luke have a strange face and see that the soldiers have the Milbotts crest, meaning that Philemon Notos Greyrat betrayed Ariel.

Chapter 178: Conjecture.

Luke still don't believe that his father betrayed Ariel, but for her was in her expectations. Because Auber and his group may continue to ambush them, Rudeus proposes to search the bandits to smuggle the group to the country, also seize the opportunity to find Trish.

Luke think that the recently actions of Rudeus were strange, showing remarkable distrust to him and ask to Ariel  a temporal retreat, asking help to Perugius, but Ariel decides to follow Rudeus Plan, changing his destination to find the Bandits

Rudeus In the night in his patrol turn, meets Orsted  again, talking about the recent events, even if they confirmed that Luke also was a apostle they decide to leave him alone for now. After returning, Rudeus finds that Ariel woke up, and she asks him to accompany her on a walk in the woods.

Chapter 179: Ariel's Choice.

After entering the forest, Rudeus and Ariel sit in a trunk and talk about trivial things, but suddenly Ariel talk about Luke and think that he is betraying them. Rudeus says that he is probably being manipulated, but he hesitate to say that
Hitogami
 is the reason. Ariel Wants to meet Orsted to know the reason why he is helping her, before Rudeus can give a answer, Orsted appear, even after being affected by the curse, they start to talk.

Orsted explain that a being called Hitogami is his enemy and is sided with Darius, and in the future if Granbell become the king, the country may perish, but if Ariel become the King, the kingdom may survive. Ariel decides to became a Orsted subordinated.

Chapter 180: Tristina.

The group enter to the territory of the band of thieves surrounded and the leader appear, using codes that learned from Orsted, Rudeus say that he want that the group be smuggled and meet Tris. They arrive to a Hut and need to wait that they bring Tina and group decide to rest.

Some hours latter Tris arrives, when she was talking with Rudeus, Ariel awakes and recognize her as
Tristina Purplehorse
, a noble daughter that she meet years ago, and ask her why she is now a bandit.Tristina tell her that she was kidnapped an became a sex slave Darius, after she was sold to bandits and some years latter she become free. After hearing her story, Ariel ask if she can testify Against Darius and she accept.

Chapter 181: Along the Way.

The next day, they group leave the hut,  leading by Tris, they arrive to a lake and near a cliff they enter to a secret cave, after some hours walking in the labyrinthine tunnels, they leave the cave and arrive to Asura kingdom territory, the group pass near the Fedoa Region, and Rudeus, Sylphi and Eris talk about the past.

After taking various alternatives routes, they arrives a town named Rickett that connects to the Asura capital. arrives to a inn related to the thief guild to rest. When Rudeus and Ghislaine were in his guard duty, Tristina arrives with news and go to Ariel room, after hearing a commotion Rudeus enter to the room and find that Ariel and Luke are fighting, because Tris confirmed that Pilemon was one of the culprit in the execution of Sauros, and Ariel want to prioritize his promise with Ghislaine to kill him, Luke angry still believes that Rudeus aim for the Notos house, Ariel denies this, claiming that after she won, Rudeus is don't going to receive a noble tittle. The next day Luke admitted that Hitogami give him advice's that Rudeus is going to betrayed them,

Days latter, with Luke still hostile against Rudeus, they arrive to the capital Ars.

Chapter 182: Imperial City Ars.

The groups is going to the second house of Ariel in Asura, even after 10 years, traveling in the commoner district, they see that Ariel still is popular with the common people. When they enter to the noble district, a soldier run to them, after removing her helmet show that is the one of the friends of Eris, Isolte and talk with her. The group arrives to the house of Ariel, where the servants began to prepare the house.

Ariel says that she need ten days to prepare all the necessary a Venue to take down Darius and the first prince faction. They decide to use Ariel as bait and do a preventive attack against his forces to reduce their strength.

Chapter 183: Mortal Combat at Dusk.

Ariel still is working in her preparations and the group is almost always attacked by assassins that's princiaim Ariel's life, that is impersonate by Sylphi, meanwhile the true Ariel is hiding as a maid, the even try to set up a trap bu failed. In one party, Luke meets his father, discussing why he betrayed Ariel and pleading to return to his faction, but he refuses to talk him.

In the nine day, Ariel finished the Venue, a party in the royal Castle where Ariel supposedly is going to nominate Granbell as the king, and all the nobles of the country are going to assist. In the night, when the groups was returning to the mansion, a assailant blocked the road and present himself as  the North King 『Twin Swords』
Knuckle Guard
, a twin swordman, Eris decides to fight them, meanwhile Wii Taa Appear with a a black armor and shield and confront
Ghislaine
.

In the middle of the fight, Rudeus decides to search Auber, that probably is waiting to do a surprise attack. using a spirit of light, notices that in the wall was a weird clothe, and without hesitation use a stone cannon, Auber evade a mortal wound, but his leg was pierced, losing almost all his mobility. Eris easily defeats Knucle Guard and thanks to her great night vision, Ghislaine overwhelmed Wii Taa, cutting him a arm, seeing the situation, Wii Taa throw a smoke screen and try to attack the Carriage, but Sylphi was inside and attack using the magic Flame Tornado, that also cleaned the smoke screen and illuminated the surrounding. They see that Auber ran away using a pair of claws climbing a wall and running in the roofs, and Wii Taa disappeared, leaving a trail of blood, They decide to pursue and finish Wii Taa

When Rudeus enter in the alleyway, he find that he was already dead with a hole in his chest, and realizes that the wound was made by Orsted. Even though Auber escaped, the plan of the group to reduced the enemy strength was a success.

Chapter 184: Ariel's Battleground.

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Chapter 185: Rudeus's Battleground.

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Chapter 186: Luke's Recklessness.

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Chapter 187: Truth of Orsted and Ten Days in the Capital.

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Chapter 188: Farewells and Sylphy's Change.

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.

Chapter 189: Return and Determination.

''Note: This section is under construction and revision''.