One of the
Three Swords of the North God
, Light and Darkness, Wii Taa.

Appearance

He's about 1 meter tall, he wears a polished full body armor that shine brightly in the light.

Personality

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Background

He was a pupil of
Kalman III
, and served the Notos family for many years.

Plot

Took part in multiple ambushes on
Ariel Anemoi Asura
. The first was while her, her attendants,
Luke Notos Greyrat
,
Rudeus Greyrat
,
Eris Boreas Greyrat
,
Sylphiette
, and
Ghislaine Dedoldia
 were traveling from the
Magic Academy
 back to Ariel's homeland, the
Asura Kingdom
. The ambush took place in the dense forest known as the
Red Wyrm's Whiskers
 just before the fortress that leads into the Asura Kingdom. In the battle he declared that he wanted to have a duel with Ghislaine and at first he had the upper hand as he was able to cut her a few times, enough to draw blood. But after Rudeus figured out the trick he was using to prevent Ghislaine from attacking, and cast
Mud Rain
 which dirtied his armor enough to stop it from reflecting light, Ghislaine was quickly able to slash his shoulder using
Longsword of Light
, forcing him to retreat.

The second was while Ariel and her bodyguards Rudeus, Eris, Ghislaine, Luke, and Sylphiette were traveling back from speaking with
Pilemon Notos Greyrat
. While Ariel took a secret underground passageway back to her residence and Sylphiette used a magic item to disguise herself as Ariel, Wii Taa, another of the Three Swords of the North God,
Nuckelgard
, and
Auber Corvette
 attacked them in the middle of the street at night. He fought against Ghislaine again, but this time Rudeus had warned her about his tricks and how to counteract them, and she had little trouble cutting his arm off and forcing him to use his item that created extremely thick black smoke to flee. While Rudeus hesitated whether or not to go after him, he was able to enter an alley where
Orsted
 used his powers to create a gaping hole in his chest, causing him to die. While this may have been his true cause of death, Eris declared that it must have been Rudeus who killed him, and no one but him knew that Orsted would be helping them out from the shadows, so Rudeus obtained credit for it.

Power and Abilities

He fights mostly by blinding his opponent by reflecting sunlight with his mirror-like armor during the day. He simply needed to lift his gauntlet and let it reflect the Sun's light in his opponents eyes, which was enough to prevent even the
Sword King
 Ghislaine from attacking him. At night, he covers himself in ink and uses thick black smoke that blends him with the night.

North
 King.

Equipment

Unnamed Armor
 - a set of full body armor that was kept so shiny that it could interfere with his opponent's vision while in combat.

Unnamed Sword
 - a blade around 30 centimeters long that also gleamed brilliantly.

Unnamed Shield
 - a jet black shield he used in combination with his night equipment.

An item capable of quickly producing an extremely large cloud of thick black smoke that he would use at night.

Achievements

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Quotes

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Trivia

Rudeus noted that he look like a disco ball with his short posture and his shiny armor.

He cared about or trusted Auber Corvette to some degree, as when he attempted to flee from Ghislaine after being badly wounded, he shouted Auber's name either as a cry for help, or to inform Auber that this was his chance to escape, since Auber was injured as well.

Template:ThreeSwordofNorthGod