This article contains information about spoilers describe in the novels, anime-only watchers and manga-only readers should please proceed with caution!

Information

Story

Relationships

Appearance

Zanoba Shirone
 (
ザノバ・シーローン
,

Zanoba Shīrōn
)
 is the former third prince and a
blessed child
 of the Shirone Kingdom. Initially presented as a minor character, harboring an abnormal infatuation with figurines and being intrigued by
Rudeus'
 crafting skills, he later turns into one of the main supporting characters of the series after becoming classmates and friends with Rudeus at the
Ranoa Magic Academy
.

Appearance

He is a tall, thin, oval-faced man, with his cheekbones clearly visible. He wears round glasses. He also sports a bowl cut hairstyle.

Personality

During his debut, Zanoba appeared as an impulsive and boisterous man-child who's deeply obsessed in dolls and figures, to the point that he has no qualms in killing people or trading his loyal subordinates for a figurine. Contrary to his comical appearance, he is highly intelligent and observant, but as his monstrous strength causes him to be alienated by others, he doesn't often have the chance to display these skills.

He has utmost respect towards Rudeus, whom he regards as his master. Although he used to think of other humans as nothing more than dolls made of flesh, he slowly comes to accept other people thanks to the influence of Rudeus and other people around him. Zanoba harbors a deep patriotism for his country and a fondness of warfare, but often tries to hide these traits from others. He is a highly proficient military commander, capable of rallying soldiers and planning effective tactics against tremendous odds.

Due to his intellectual level, he often conducts research and produces several inventions for Rudeus. He also has a deep level of understanding and appreciation of arts and crafts, enough to eventually earn the favor of Armored Dragon King
Perugius Dola
.

It's revealed that his patriotism, fondness for warfare and his love for his younger brother
Pax
 were simple attempts to act more human. Even though he does not fully understand such emotions, he feels like they are the right ones to act on.

Background

Zanoba is born as the Third Prince of Shirone Kingdom. When he was three years old, he accidentally killed his brother Julius, the Fourth Prince causing him to be known as the Head Ripping Prince. When he was 15 years old, he also killed his wife by accident.

Power and Abilities

Magic Abilities

Earth Magic
 - Intermediate

Miko of Superhuman Strength






Zanoba's Miko Power in the Anime



Even at a young age, Zanoba is possess inhuman strength that makes him known to be the Miko capable of standing off against a demon king as far as raw strength goes and can lift objects several times heavier than him at will. Any hit from Zanoba is potentially fatal even with
Battle Aura
. This power does not include stamina, however, as Zanoba is described to be unfit for long travels. Because of this, his older brothers are afraid of him and sees him as a bomb that could go off anytime so they propose to exile him.

Miko Body






Zanoba withstanding attacks from an automted doll in the Anime



Aside from his strength, Zanoba's Miko powers also grants him a resilient body than can withstand numerous physical attacks that does not wound him easily that are otherwise fatal to others
 but despite this, Zanoba has a natural vulnerability to fire.

Equipment

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Achievements

He created the world's first prosthetic arm.

He created the world's first automaton with the help of
Rudeus
.

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Quotes

To Rudeus:

“I have a weakness for figurines. I collect them from all over the world,”

Zanoba:
 "When I lifted Pax's corpse up I suddenly had a thought. Why, I wonder why, at that time, did we not speak to one another, huh?"

Note: This section is under construction and revision
.

Trivia

Among the special students of his generation, he was the oldest.

He's able to use the first generation Zariff Prosthetic Arm for 3 hours.

He became
Perugius
' closest friend as they have the same interest in art. This friendship was enough to make Perugius offer his assistance in retaking Shirone for Zanoba, despite his blatant hatred for power struggles.

Beside Rudeus he enjoyed the company of
Cliff
 and
Julie
.

He named Julie after his late younger brother.

References

Navigation

Ranoa Magic Academy

Principal

Georg

Vice Principal

Jinas Halfas

Teachers

Roxy Migurdia
 •
Badigadi

Student Council

Ariel Anemoi Asura
 •
Norn Greyrat
 •
Luke Notos Greyrat
 •
Fitz

Special Student

Rudeus Greyrat
 •
Rinia Dedorudia
 •
Pursena Adorudia
 •
Zanoba Shirone
 •
Cliff Grimoire
 •
Silent Seven Star