SPOILER ALERT!

This page contains
spoilers!
  Read at your own risk.

Information

Story

Relationships

Volume 6 - Juvenile Period - Homecoming Chapter

He helps Rudeus and becomes his disciple.

Volume 7- Youth Period - School Entry Chapter

He is reunited with Rudeus and accompanies him throughout the school.

Volume 8 - Youth Period - Special Student Chapter

He could not learn how to make dolls from Rudeus, so he bought a young dwarf slave girl,
Julie
 to make her learn doll-making techniques from Rudeus. Later he tells the story of how Roxy's figure Rudeus made was destroyed and accompanies Rudeus who completely wiped the floor with Pursena and Rinia who were criminals behind that crime. He could not beat them by himself.

Volume 19 - Young Man Period - Zanoba Chapter

Zanoba received a draft notice sent from Pax who had successfully seized with backing from the Dragon king Kingdom. Despite many warnings, including Rudeus', Zanoba decided to go back, as he feels indebted to his country for tolerating and funding his whims. Using his friendship with Perugius, he managed to ask for his permission to use the magic circle as a shortcut back for both him, Rudeus and reluctantly, Roxy.

Along with a worried Rudeus and Roxy, Zanoba came back and got assigned to the front line fort against a nameless north country. Despite many worries, they successfully held against he invasion with Zanoba setting an ambush and capturing the enemy's commander. With the hostage, they successfully forced a truce with the north country for 3 years.

However, Ginger came with a message from the capital. A warlord called Jade, backing a minor-known 11th prince, had turned coat and surrounded the capital. Arrived at castle in a secret passage, Zanoba and co. confronted the Death God, with him they fought to a draw. However, it was a misunderstanding and Death God simply defended Pax instead of being an apostle of Hitogami.

Zanoba tried desperately to save Pax as he attempted suicide but failed. Tearfully, he let go of everything, including his royal title to go back to Sharia, leaving the castle to rebel force. Afterward, he resolved to become Orsted's follower in order to extract vengeance against Hitogami who manipulated the events leading to Pax's death, as revealed by Orsted's investigation.