"
A Clan Possessed by Evil
" (
悪に憑かれた一族
,
Aku ni Tsukareta Ichizoku
) is chapter 619 of the original
Naruto
 manga.

Summary

As the newly reincarnated
Hokage
 adjust to their circumstance,
Suigetsu
 marvels at being in the presence of
Hashirama
. When the situation of how their souls were
released
 and then they were
reincarnated
 is explained by
Hiruzen
 and
Minato
, Hashirama bluntly asks who the latter was. Announcing himself via his title of Fourth Hokage, Hashirama is pleased that the village had seemingly enjoyed such stability but was later shocked and bit apprehensive to hear that his granddaughter had inherited the title of Fifth Hokage. The banter between the Hokage is soon cut short after
Orochimaru
 allayed their outrage that he had reincarnated them to destroy Konoha and instead presented
Sasuke
 to them. From this point, Sasuke first questioned the Third about the
Uchiha Clan Downfall
 and Hiruzen sombrely confirmed all that the young man had been told, noting that this was something Itachi decided to shoulder himself. This led the conversation to segue into a conversation about the Uchiha with
Tobirama
 and his decision, as well as motives behind giving the clan the
Konoha Military Police Force
 as a sign of trust. Here it was revealed that the Uchiha was a clan possessed by evil, but above even the
Senju
, they valued love and friendship above all else, but as a result of this, its loss had an even greater-than-normal effect on them. Upon hearing all this, the young Uchiha turns towards the once-leader of the Senju clan, posing two questions to him: what the village meant, and what was the purpose of
shinobi
.

Trivia

Going from timeline of events given in the databooks, Hashirama would not have been alive when Tsunade was born.

In the original publication, when Sasuke reveals his Mangekyō Sharingan, it is his own, regular Mangekyō Sharingan, without Itachi's Mangekyō on top of it. In the tankōbon release, Itachi's Mangekyō is added, resulting in Sasuke's Eternal Mangekyō Sharingan.