"
A Dangerous Mission! Journey to the Land of Waves!
" (
重要任務!波の国へ超出発!
,
Jūyō Ninmu! Nami no Kuni e Chō-shuppatsu!
) is episode 6 of the original
Naruto
 anime.

Synopsis

After
Team 7
 successfully finds
Tora
, the lost cat of the
Fire Daimyō
's
wife
, they return it back to her. With their mission successfully completed, the
Third

Hokage
 informs them of the available
D-rank
 missions, such as babysitting the chief counsellor's three-year-old.
Naruto
 expresses that he wants to go on a real mission that's exciting and challenging.
Iruka
 lectures him, stating that like every beginner
genin
 with no experience, he must start with simpler missions to develop his skills. The Third goes on to explain that with a higher-ranked mission comes higher difficulty and greater risk to the
shinobi
. However, Naruto exclaims that he is a ninja now and wants to be treated as such. Amused at his statement, the Third decides to give the team a
C-rank
 mission to escort
Tazuna
, a master bridge builder, to the
Land of Waves
. When Tazuna meets the team, he expresses disbelief in the fact that kids are going to be guarding him but works with them nonetheless.

As they make their way to the Land of Waves,
two

chūnin
-level
Kiri
-nin
emerge from a puddle
 and binds Kakashi with shuriken-laced chains, before pulling and ripping him apart. With Kakashi "defeated", the duo turns their attention to Naruto, who freezes up. Before they can land an attack,
Sasuke
 intervenes and saves Naruto. The duo split up, leaving one behind as the other charges at Tazuna.
Sakura
 steps in front of Tazuna to defend him before Sasuke appears in front of her to aid. Before anything further can happen, Kakashi appears and effortlessly defeats the duo, though Naruto does attain a small scratch from one of their
Metal Gauntlets
, which contained
poison
. It is revealed that Kakashi used the
Body Replacement Technique
 to escape the duo's initial attack, suspecting an ambush when he discovered their puddle on a clear day. Kakashi compliments Sasuke and Sakura for their courage but expresses disappointment in Naruto with how poorly he handled the situation. Tazuna questions why Kakashi took so long to help, with the latter explaining that he could have defeated them quickly but needed to know who their target was. Kakashi points out that their target was Tazuna and that had he told them that he would be hunted by ninja, the mission would be a
B-rank
 or higher, and a different team would have been assigned. Sakura suggests they quit the mission, not only due to the higher difficulty but because of Naruto's wound. Unwilling to jeopardise the mission, Naruto decides to take out a
kunai
 and uses it to remove the poison from his hand. He then makes an oath that he will never run away or back down from any mission, threat, or enemy, as well as not lose to Sasuke. After this, Kakashi bandages Naruto's wound so he doesn't bleed out, but discovers that it had already begun to heal due to the
Nine-Tailed Demon Fox
.

Elsewhere,
Gatō
, the man who hired the Demon Brothers to eliminate Tazuna, complains about their failure to
Zabuza
, the duo's apparent boss. Zabuza raises his
Kubikiribōchō
 at Gatō to shut him up, and states that he will handle it himself. Gatō informs him that they will be expecting another assault and that a high-level ninja is accompanying Tazuna. This doesn't faze Zabuza, who just replies that he is the "Demon of the Hidden Mist".

Trivia

In the English dub broadcast, all shots showing the kunai stabbing Naruto's hand were censored. This is done by freeze framing the kunai while zooming in with a red filter, remove all blood splatter (the wound itself as well as a few drops of blood were left as-is however), the kunai on Naruto's hand being digitally erased, and a shot of Naruto was swapped for another without showing his hand. Future episodes that flashback to this scene either reused the censored footage or swapped the shot of the moment Naruto stabbed himself with the kunai with another shot of Naruto.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Maile Flanagan
Sasuke Uchiha
Noriaki Sugiyama
杉山 紀彰
Sugiyama Noriaki
Yuri Lowenthal
Sakura Haruno
Chie Nakamura
中村 千絵
Nakamura Chie
Kate Higgins
Kakashi Hatake
Kazuhiko Inoue
井上 和彦
Inoue Kazuhiko
Dave Wittenberg
Iruka
Toshihiko Seki
関 俊彦
Seki Toshihiko
Quinton Flynn
Third Hokage: Sarutobi
Hidekatsu Shibata
柴田 秀勝
Shibata Hidekatsu
Steve Kramer
Tazuna
Takeshi Aono
青野 武
Aono Takeshi
Kirk Thornton
Zabuza Momochi
Unsho Ishizuka
石塚 運昇
Ishizuka Unshō
Steve Blum
Gatō
Naoki Bando
坂東 尚樹
Bandō Naoki
Fred Tatasciore
Meizu
Toshiaki Kuwahara
くわはら 利晃
Kuwahara Toshiaki
Kirk Thornton
Shijimi
Nozomi Takatsuki
高月 希海
Takatsuki Nozomi
Mona Marshall