"
A Flightless Hawk
" (
翔べない鷹
,
Tobenai Taka
) is episode 274 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Sakura
 informs
Sarada
 that
Sasuke
 is taking
Boruto
 with him to look for a replacement messenger hawk. She advises Sarada to get used to Sasuke leaving and returning suddenly. On the train, Sasuke explains the type of hawk he's after, tended to by a man named
Maruta
. Another passenger informs them that a detour will be required because of a recent landslide. Sasuke and Boruto hop off the train, continuing their journey on foot. Near a structure with extravagant buildings, the two are accosted by a security officer with a wolf, who finds them suspicious. Sasuke claims they're just passing through, and they leave. They arrive at Maruta's research facility, where he initially attacks them, confusing them for Paradise representatives, whose leader
Mozu Shitakiri
 deals in exotic and endangered animals. They've began threatening him to learn about the Thousand Mile Hawk's habitat, and can't risk them finding out about it by tailing them if he takes Sasuke and Boruto there. Sasuke wants to investigate, and enters Paradise claiming to be a customer. Mozu initially intends to send them away, but changes her mind when Boruto recognises
Tentō
 in a photo. She takes them to see their pens, and berates her son, who took it upon himself to clean the stables when no one else would, for showing up filthy in front of customers.
 When Sasuke asks about their security, Mozu demonstrates their security system, confident in its ability to stop thieves. When Mozu explains an empty cage is for a Thousand Mile Hawk she means to acquire, Boruto accuses her of threatening Maruta. Realising they're not customers, she tells them to send Maruta a veiled threat on her behalf. Sasuke is worried about Boruto wanting to meddle. Mozu tells the security officer to deal with the shinobi. At night, Maruta takes Sasuke, who throws the security officer following them off their trail with crows, to the habitat. In the morning, Boruto spots
Tsuzura
 training a white hawk. He introduces himself, and Tsuzura explains that
Yuki
 trusts him because they've been together since she was young, but captivity made it hard for her to get food on her own, so he takes her out to get her used to it. Boruto helps by stirring up critters for Yuki to hunt. Yuki doesn't fly well because of an injury sustained when she fell from her nest. Boruto gets a book on hawks from Maruta's research facility so Tsuzura can learn, but his mother never thought him to read, so Boruto reads it for him. Mozu wants him to take over the business, but he dislikes how she treats the animals. Boruto relates to feeling pressure over a parent's job. Boruto decides to teach Tsuzura to read. He asks his mother to go to school, but she finds it too expensive, and they'd teach him things she feels he doesn't need to know. Mozu sends him to his room. Tsuzura exchanges notes with Boruto through Yuki. Sasuke and Maruta arrive at the hawk habitat. Maruta has given them the necessary training, but they must accept Sasuke. One of the hawks immediately accepts Sasuke, landing on his arm, surprising Maruta. With Boruto's help, Tsuzura successfully has Yuki capture prey. Mozu arrives with the security officer, and blaming Boruto for giving Tsuzura ideas, takes Yuki away and decides to restrict his freedom even further. The security officer threats to arrest him, but Tsuzura deescalates the situation, leaving with his mother.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Sasuke Uchiha
Noriaki Sugiyama
杉山 紀彰
Sugiyama Noriaki
Sakura Uchiha
Chie Nakamura
中村 千絵
Nakamura Chie
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Mozu Shitakiri
Kumiko Watanabe
渡辺 久美子
Watanabe Kumiko
Tsuzura Shitakiri
Kanae Oki
沖 佳苗
Oki Kanae
Maruta
Minoru Inaba
稲葉 実
Inaba Minoru
Security officer
Kosuke Katayama
片山 公輔
Katayama Kōsuke
Paradise staff
Katsunori Okai
Kazuya Saji
岡井 カツノリ
佐治 和也
Okai Katsunori
Saji Kazuya