"
A Killer on the Ship
" (
殺人鬼の船
,
Satsujinki no Fune
) is episode 238 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Without any
Funato
 following them, the group believes they'll make it to
Kirigakure
 without issue.
Iwabee
 expresses distrust of the
New Seven Ninja Swordsmen
,
Kyohō
 in particular, over the blind rage he went through at the Funato fortress.
Boruto
 points out how calm he is now, and adds that
Buntan
 helped them in tough spots, so he'll trust
Kagura
's judgement.
Taiki
 stresses he wants to be well compensated for having to sacrifice his boat, wishing for enough money to build a new one. That night, Taiki is murdered while everyone sleeps, and Kagura discovers the body in the morning. Iwabee raises the possibility there's a Funato among the refugees on the ship.
Mitsuki
 determines the murder weapon was very heavy, and
Kawaki
 asks about Kyohō's whereabouts. They find Kyohō cleaning blood off
Kabutowari
, and he claims he slept through the night. Kawaki points out he had no memory of going on a rampage in the fortress, and Iwabee believes that's what happened again.
 Kyohō and Iwabee become hostile to each other, but
Hebiichigo
 separates them with wires, and assures Kyohō was in deep sleep because of his rampage at the fortress. Iwabee questions if she's not Kyohō's accomplice. Boruto talks Iwabee down, pointing out how distressed Kyohō is, and Buntan talks Hebiichigo down, reasoning that she shouldn't provoke Iwabee is she wants him to stand down. They decide to keep quiet about Taiki's murder, and wonder about the culprit. Hebiichigo suggests they already escaped the ship, but
Denki
 says that with the thick fog, even the Funato wouldn't risk it without a ship, which they would have heard. They decide to investigate the ship for a hidden culprit, while Iwabee and Boruto keep an eye on Kyohō, Boruto feeling guilty that Taiki got involved despite being a bystander. Everyone else splits in teams of two. Word of Taiki's murder spreads through the refugees, who become concerned by the presence of the swordsmen on the ship.
Metal Lee
 asks Hebiichigo if she believes in Kyohō's innocence. She doesn't want to be guilty by association and lose her sentence reduction. She also believes him because they did time together. Metal is convinced, his trusting nature confusing Hebiichigo. Boruto thinks Iwabee doesn't really believe Kyohō is guilty, and recalls that Iwabee's grandfather died fighting Kirigakure. Iwabee is surprised Boruto remembers it. Boruto thinks they should trust Kyohō and the swordsmen because Kagura trusts them. The shinobi find no sign of a hidden culprit, but Denki brings one of the refugees, who wishes to speak with them. They go to Boruto, Iwabee, and Kyohō, telling them a refugee came forward with damning testimony, and they ask for Kyohō to unmask himself. The refugee claims he saw Kyohō on his way to the captains quarters when he went to the bathroom. They want to see if Kyohō has the same face marks as the Funato. Kyohō is very anxious about unmasking. Even his team-mates have never seen Kyohō unmasked. The refugees recall Kyohō of being surrounded by the Funato, causing him to run in fear, which they take as proof of Kyohō's guilt. Kawaki tells Boruto it's a drastic measure they have to take. Kyohō ambushes Iwabee, but is saved by Kawaki, who prepares to execute Kyohō. Kawaki tells the refugees he dealt with Kyohō, and the shinobi deal with Kyohō's body. As the night rolls in, so does thick fog again. One of the refugees checks on Kyohō's body, puking a lot of water, which reforms into
Kobanza
, who stole Kabutowari while Kyohō was sleeping. He intends to take control of Kyohō's body. Kyohō reveals himself to be alive, catching the Funato in Kawaki's trap. Kawaki thought that news of Taiki's murder spread too quickly, and the fake testimony sealed the deal, as the bathroom and captain quarters are in opposite directions. Kobanza
turns into water
 again, which Mitsuki compares to
Suigetsu
. He and Boruto attack with
Lightning Release

kunai
, forcing him to escape through cracks on the wall. He tries to take out the engine, but Hebiichigo holds him in place with
Nuibari
, its wires capable of binding chakra itself, so the Funato clansmen can't escape even with a liquid body. Boruto, Kagura, and Buntan catch up, Buntan ready to make him talk. The clansmen forces himself free of the wires, and goes into the engine, killing himself to damage it. Kyohō protects Hebiichigo from the explosion. The next day, the refugees feel bad about distrusting Kyohō. Metal wonders why Kyohō wears a mask, and he explains that long ago, his village was burned by the Funato, so he wears a mask to hide the scars, the sight of blood taking him back to that moment. Iwabee apologises for suspecting Kyohō, who in turn apologises for taking so long to explain himself. Mitsuki takes an interest on Kawaki. Denki confirms the ship's engine is badly damaged.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Kawaki
Yuma Uchida
内田 雄馬
Uchida Yūma
Denki Kaminarimon
Chihiro Ikki
一木 千洋
Ikki Chihiro
Iwabee Yuino
Shinya Hamazoe
浜添 伸也
Hamazoe Shin'ya
Metal Lee
Ryo Nishitani
西谷 亮
Nishitani Ryō
Kagura Karatachi
Keisuke Komoto
河本 啓佑
Kōmoto Keisuke
Buntan Kurosuki
Mariya Ise
伊瀬 茉莉也
Ise Mariya
Hebiichigo
Nao Toyama
東山 奈央
Tōyama Nao
Kyohō Fuefuki
Yasuhiro Mamiya
間宮 康弘
Mamiya Yasuhiro
Captain Taiki
Kiyoyuki Yanada
梁田 清之
Yanada Kiyoyuki
Kobanza
Kosuke Takaguchi
高口 公介
Takaguchi Kōsuke
Dotō Island people
Kosuke Katayama
Katsunori Okai
Sara Matsumoto
Kumi Takaragi
片山 公輔
岡井 カツノリ
松本 沙羅
宝木 久美
Katayama Kōsuke
Okai Katsunori
Matsumoto Sara
Takaragi Kumi