"
A New Training Begins: I Will Be Strong!
" (
修行開始　オレはぜってー強くなる!
,
Shugyō Kaishi Ore wa Zettē Tsuyokunaru!
) is episode 86 of the original
Naruto
 anime.

Synopsis

Guy
 decides to take
Sasuke
 back to Konoha, and tells
Jiraiya
 to hurry up and find
Tsunade
.
Naruto
 adamantly states that they will. Naruto's determination impresses Guy, who bestows upon Naruto a green jumpsuit that
Lee
 wears. On the way to search for Tsunade, Naruto asks about her. Jiraiya tells him that she is one of the Legendary
Sannin
 alongside him and that she is also famous for being a poor gambler. At the same time, Tsunade decides to partake in gambling at Machijūtoba, a casino where the big bets are made. Tsunade uses all of her cash, exciting the head gambler as he is aware of her reputation.

Meanwhile, Naruto enjoys a day out on the town while Jiraiya does some investigating into Tsunade's whereabouts. Naruto reveals that he has saved up a lot of money and plans to use it during the festival; Jiraiya takes away his savings, advising Naruto that it is for his own benefit, to avoid overspending. Naruto uses his allotted money to enjoy the various food and games at the festival. Having depleted his allowance buying food for himself and Jiraiya, Naruto sets off to find his sensei. Naruto finds Jiraiya in a room with two women drinking sake, infuriated that Jiraiya has spent all of his savings. As he lashes out at Jiraiya, two men enter the room, and Naruto accidentally throws the squid he was holding at the stranger's coat, creating a stain. As the two men begin to cause trouble, Jiraiya advises Naruto to pay attention.
Forming a blue sphere of chakra in his hand
, Jiraiya hits the man in the stomach and sends him flying away with incredible force. The man then recognises Jiraiya, and in fear, hands him his wallet. Jiraiya uses some of the money to pay for the stand he accidentally destroyed and uses the rest to buy balloons and water balloons.

Ready to begin their training, Jiraiya gives Naruto a balloon. Jiraiya explains that Naruto must combine his
Tree Climbing Practice
 as well as his
Water Surface Walking Practice
 in order to spin the water inside the balloon. Naruto proudly states that he understands, and thus begins his training.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Maile Flanagan
Jiraiya
Hochu Otsuka
大塚 芳忠
Ōtsuka Hōchū
David Lodge
Tsunade
Masako Katsuki
勝生 真沙子
Katsuki Masako
Debi Mae West
Shizune
Keiko Nemoto
根本 圭子
Nemoto Keiko
Megan Hollingshead
Might Guy
Masashi Ebara
江原 正士
Ebara Masashi
Skip Stellrecht
Elder brother
Masayuki Nakata
中田 雅之
Nakata Masayuki
Wally Wingert
Small-time yakuza
Ichirota Koizumi
小泉 一郎太
Koizumi Ichirōta
Doug Stone
Gamblers
Shigenori Soya
Masato Funaki
宗矢 樹頼
船木 真人
Sōya Shigenori
Funaki Masato
Lex Lang
Kim Strauss