"
A New Wind
" (
新しい風
,
Atarashii Kaze
) is chapter 635 of the original
Naruto
 manga.

Summary

Arriving to where
Tsunade
 and the other
Kage
 were and upon seeing
Katsuyu
, a mischievous
Suigetsu
 wonders how much salt it would take to kill it. This causes an argument to strike up between him and
Karin
 who can not make up her mind whether or not she loved
Sasuke
 despite trying to kill her previously. Using fear tactics,
Orochimaru
 gets the two to comply, and the trio turn their attention to the Kage. A wary Katsuyu, however, prepares to
attack
 them, but stood down after Orochimaru declared they were there to help as the healing process was going very slowly because of Tsunade's current state. With this, Suigetsu puts the two halves of Tsunade's body back together, Karin
heals her
 which in turn allows Katsuyu to reconnect Tsunade's bisected halves. With Tsunade healed and able to stand, she questioned her fellow
Sannin
 about his motives.
 Orochimaru claimed that he had changed from his previous views of wanting to move the world, and wanted to be around when a certain other person did — leading Tsunade to note that
Jiraiya
 would have been alive if Orochimaru had made this discovery earlier. Turning their discussion to the war, Katsuyu interjects that it would brief them on what was happening, much to Tsunade's shock that the slug was also back on the battlefield. As Orochimaru and the others took their leave, back on the battlefield,
Sai
 questions
Sakura
 about her views on Sasuke's return, her answer to which leads Sai to believe that although the words were sincere, her smile was a fake. As the
Ten-Tails
 burned,
Naruto
 instructs Sasuke to put the
flames
 out once the beast was weakened so that he and
Kurama
 could extract the
tailed beasts
 but Sasuke refuses, noting that he would burn them all down to create a new system. Not intending to go peacefully, however, the Ten-Tails removes the part of its body which was burning much to the Uchiha's shock. Briefed on the situation — the Kage now all healed — made preparations to head to the battlefield. Meanwhile, in
Kamui's dimension
,
Kakashi
 and
Obito
 battle wages on, with Kakashi piercing Obito with his
Lightning Cutter
 and Obito stabbing Kakashi with a large
shuriken
.