"
A Ninja's Job
" (
忍者のお仕事
,
Ninja no Oshigoto
) is episode 42 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Team Konohamaru
 finishes a mission of capturing a runaway pet, much to
Boruto
's chagrin. They return the pet to its owner. Boruto voices his displeasure with the simple, neighbourhood based missions they've been assigned so far.
Sarada
 points out those are the missions usually assigned to genin. At the mission assignment desk, Boruto requests a flashier mission.
Konohamaru
 points out that Boruto probably got the wrong impression about missions, since missions with combat against other shinobi, like his first mission, are very rare in times of peace. Konohamaru points out their former classmates are also doing similarly low-key missions, and adds that through these missions, they get to learn about the village. Boruto asks if
Naruto
 fed him that line.
 A news report informs them that an armed robbery was stopped by
Kiba
 and
Rock Lee
. Boruto buys a newly released game, a sequel to a game he really likes, and offers to teach
Mitsuki
 so they can play together. Sarada informs Boruto and Mitsuki they've been summoned by Konohamaru to deal with a bank robber, which sparks Boruto's interest. Boruto is disappointed by the scene at the bank. They're greeted by captain
Kōtarō Fūma
 of the police force, who is in charge of the situation. There are no hostages, and their mission is to talk the robber out of exploding himself along with the bank. Despite being disappointed by the situation, Boruto is still committed to finish the mission. He goes inside the bank by himself, trying to act as a negotiator, and then as a hostage for the robber, all the while noting the robbers ineptitude. Boruto doesn't find
Haguruma
 to be someone who would rob a bank, and Haguruma tells him how he was fired from his job. He was a game programmer, and after he and his team had to deal with an unforgiving schedule, they decided to file a complaint against their boss. The boss somehow learned of it, and fabricated evidence that Haguruma was selling company secrets to rivals, leading to his firing. After being made an example for the other employees, no other company would hire him, and with no income, his debts piled up. Boruto identifies with Haguruma when he mentions not longer caring about the job since others didn't know what befell him. Haguruma feels better having told Boruto his story, and activates the bomb. He feels blowing himself up the day the last game he worked on is released will be a good final protest against his boss. Boruto reveals he just bought the game, and that he was a great fan of the first one. Boruto's passion for the games moves Haguruma, who gives up blowing himself up. When he can't deactivate the bomb because of issues with the trigger, Boruto instead fries the device with
Lightning Release
. Boruto comes out of the bank with Haguruma. At the police station, the captain informs the team that after seeing that the device would not have caused any casualties, and that Haguruma was under extreme emotional duress, his punishment is not likely to be severe. When Mitsuki asks what Haguruma will do now, Boruto asks
Denki
 to find him a job at his family's company. Captain Kōtarō informs Konohamaru that someone instigated Haguruma into barricading himself in the bank. Just then, a fellow officer gives him surprising news. Outside, masked individuals are on the move.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Amanda Celine Miller
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Cherami Leigh
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Robbie Daymond
Konohamaru Sarutobi
Hidenori Takahashi
高橋 英則
Takahashi Hidenori
Max Mittelman
Denki Kaminarimon
Chihiro Ikki
一木 千洋
Ikki Chihiro
Erica Mendez
Haguruma
Kosuke Okano
岡野 浩介
Okano Kōsuke
Lucien Dodge
Kōtarō Fūma
Anri Katsu
勝 杏里
Katsu Anri
Eric Saleh
Suika Kannonji
Mariko Higashiuchi
東内 マリ子
Higashiuchi Mariko
Alex Cazares
Kiba Inuzuka
Kosuke Toriumi
鳥海 浩輔
Toriumi Kōsuke
Kyle Hebert
Rock Lee
Yoichi Masukawa
増川 洋一
Masukawa Yōichi
Brian Donovan
Newscaster
Shinya Hamazoe
浜添 伸也
Hamazoe Shin'ya
Kyle Hebert
Toy shop clerk
Kazuki Ota
太田 一騎
Ōta Kazuki
Ray Chase