This article is about the Boruto chapter. For the Shippūden episode, see
A Special Mission
.

"
A Special Mission
" (
特別な任務
,
Tokubetsu na Ninmu
) is chapter 73 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 manga.

Summary

Team 7
 arrives at the
Hokage
's office, wondering what their
mission
 might be since they've been out of action for so long.
Mitsuki
 points out if would be the debut of the team since
Kawaki
 joined.
Shikamaru
, Kawaki,
Sumire
, and
Konohamaru
 are in the office.
Boruto
 notes it's his first time meeting Kawaki since resurrecting. The two try acting casual, Sumire recalls her talk with Kawaki, and tries to ease the mood. Shikamaru goes straight to the point, explaining their current biggest threats are Boruto, who's a full
Ōtsutsuki
, being at risk of being possessed by
Momoshiki
, and Kawaki, who despite not being at risk of possession, is too powerful for them to control.
Sarada
 stresses he's just stating out the status quo. Shikamaru reveals that
Amado
 survived his encounter with
Code
, but had to rescind his power limiters, placing his capabilities as above
Jigen
's, but below
Isshiki
's. Sarada wonders if their mission is to take him out with Boruto's and Kawaki's Ōtsutsuki abilities. Shikamaru denies it, and continues, explaining who
Ada
 is, her entrancing ability, and how as Ōtsutsuki, Boruto and Kawaki are immune to it. Sarada asks if their mission is to take her out, but again Shikamaru denies it. On a train, Amado watches Ada watching the meeting. Shikamaru explains that while originally an enemy, Amado's plan worked, Code lost her as an ally, and she's on her way to
Konoha
.
 Underlining how Ada answers to no one, they have to avoid making her an enemy. Their mission is to cohabitate with her. Konohamaru explains that Boruto and Kawaki will live with her. Ada is shocked. The boys aren't looking up to it, but Sarada realises it's a surveillance mission. Even if Ada herself doesn't try anything, other people put on the mission might act on her behalf due to her ability. They're to determine how willing she is to cooperate with Konoha, otherwise she won't be allowed to stay. Shikamaru believes she'll agree and reveals her crush on Kawaki, to everyone's surprise and Ada's embarrassment. Amado asks her what's going on, and
Daemon
 notices her heart racing. She feels this is exactly what she wanted. Shikamaru tells Kawaki to be very mindful of how he acts with Ada. Boruto asks why she'd crush on Kawaki, who's immune to her ability, if she can have anyone else fall for her. Sumire proposes that Ada wants a genuine experience. Kawaki finds it all illogical. Shikamaru proceeds to reveal Ada's
clairvoyance
, and that they should consider everything in their conversation leaked, addressing Ada herself on the beginning of their diplomatic manoeuvring. Kawaki would rather fight Code, and Shikamaru points out that his location is impossible to nail down, which is something Ada can help them with. Konohamaru adds that Boruto is to act as a mediator between Ada and Kawaki, which he finds annoying, while Konohamaru, Sarada, and Mitsuki report on them from afar, including if Boruto is acting normal. The
Sensor Team
 will aid them. Shikamaru asks them if they'll do it, not if they can do it. Boruto answers they don't really have the option to refuse.
Sasuke
 discusses the mission with
Naruto
, considering it glorified house arrest. Naruto explains Shikamaru logic in that Boruto and Kawaki wouldn't stand aside to avoid fighting someone they can't beat if ordered to do it, so giving them responsibility through a mission will covertly control them. Shikamaru says they might have to act without specific orders if something unexpected happens. Kawaki perceives Momoshiki's presence by Boruto for an instant. Sasuke also recognises the feeling. Ada finds Shikamaru's ideas intriguing.

Trivia

In one panel in page 10, Sarada is mistakenly depicted with a scratch on her Konoha forehead protector.