"
A Village Without Sasuke
" (
サスケのいない里
,
Sasuke no Inai Sato
) is episode 133 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Jiraiya
 tells
Sasuke
 to dismiss his question about his identity as a joke.
Boruto
 goes back to
Naruto
, the two get over their awkwardness from before and resume training. Jiraiya is willing to stop investigating Sasuke's and Boruto's identities if Sasuke gives him intel on
Urashiki
. Sasuke agrees to it, and thanks Jiraiya for his
fūinjutsu
, which allowed them to counter Urashiki's chakra extraction. He informs Jiraiya of Urashiki's space-time ninjutsu, that he's able to sense it when Urashiki uses it, and that he might still have jutsu unknown to them. Sasuke asks how is Boruto and Naruto's training going, and Jiraiya says he doesn't know how it'll turn out, as they're also rather unknown to him. Naruto takes Boruto to have ramen at Ichiraku. Boruto asks Naruto about Sasuke. Naruto tells him of the
Uchiha Clan Downfall
 and how Sasuke deserted to gain power from the pain of solitude, and went to
Orochimaru
, surprising Boruto. He tells Boruto he's training with Jiraiya to get stronger and bring Sasuke back, as he's someone he was finally able to bond with him. He doesn't know what it's like to have parents or siblings, but he figures that his bond with Sasuke is the closest thing he has to a brother. Sasuke tells Jiraiya that while his jutsu prevented Urashiki from stealing his chakra, he still hasn't replenished the chakra that was stolen during a previous fight, and that Urashiki could tell.
 Jiraiya wants to create an opportunity to seal Urashiki. Urashiki prepares to make his next move. While struggling with the training, Naruto thinks to apply the
Leaf Concentration Practice
, which improves their results.
Sakura
 arrives and asks Boruto about the paper Sasuke dropped. The note got smudged from being dropped in a puddle, but a few words are still readable, including
Sarada
's name and Sasuke's name. Boruto is able to deflect her questions by saying it's probably someone else also named Sasuke. Sakura wants to ask Sasuke directly. Naruto and Boruto join
Team Asuma
 for
barbecue
. Urashiki
teleports
 in on Boruto and Naruto training. Sasuke senses him. Urashiki uses Sasuke's chakra to attack with
Fire Release
 and
Lightning Release
. Jiraiya and Sasuke arrive, and Urashiki taunts Sasuke by attacking him with his own chakra. Jiraiya attempts a sneak attack, but Urashiki sees through it and impales Jiraiya with his rod. Urashiki claims his
eyes
 can see the future.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Sasuke Uchiha
Noriaki Sugiyama
杉山 紀彰
Sugiyama Noriaki
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Jiraiya
Hochu Otsuka
大塚 芳忠
Ōtsuka Hōchū
Sakura Haruno
Chie Nakamura
中村 千絵
Nakamura Chie
Shikamaru Nara
Shotaro Morikubo
森久保 祥太郎
Morikubo Shōtarō
Chōji Akimichi
Kentaro Ito
伊藤 健太郎
Itō Kentarō
Ino Yamanaka
Ryoka Yuzuki
柚木 涼香
Yuzuki Ryōka
Yakiniku Q employee
Sara Matsumoto
松本 沙羅
Matsumoto Sara
Urashiki Ōtsutsuki
Kazuya Nakai
中井 和哉
Nakai Kazuya