"
A Wish
" (
願い
,
Negai
) is episode 230 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Mozuku
 leads
Kawaki
 through the shortest route to the
Land of Calm Seas
, hoping to intercept
Kurobane
, who he reveals in an
Anbu
 in service of the
daimyō
. He apologises for splitting his team, but Kawaki explains they were never his team.
Shikadai
 takes an injured
Chōchō
 back to
Konoha
.
Konohamaru
 updates
Naruto
 and
Shikamaru
 that all the recently murdered boys were from the Land of Calm Seas. Believing it to be related, Naruto orders reinforcements, recalling that
Team 7
 is also out on a mission. Finishing the mission,
Mitsuki
 receives the order, recalling that
Boruto
's intuition was right. Shikadai stops to let Chōchō rest, and they're approached by Boruto and
Sarada
, who decided to check on them after seeing the suspicious shinobi around the same area of their mission. Shikadai tells Boruto that Kawaki left with the client. Kawaki and Mozuku catch up to Kurobane. Mozuku tries appealing to him as a Land of Calm Seas citizen, but Kurobane thinks a shinobi should do only as ordered by their employer.
 He
casts a fog
 from which several clones appear. When Kawaki's attacks go through them, Mozuku believes they might be
genjutsu
, but is unable to break through it. Kurobane explains the fog is created from ambient moisture, including their own body moisture, which will leave them as dried husks. Kawaki is hit by a real blade, which he has to dodge as he continues to dry up. He determines that since the real sword is moving unnaturally, the real Kurobane must be controlling it nearby. He disperses some of the fog with a
Fire Release
, revealing blood threads, which he uses to aim an energy blast at the real Kurobane. He dodges it, but is hit by Kawaki, clearing the fog. Kawaki collects the medicine package, but Kurobane recalls his blade with blood threads. Mozuku protects him with his own body, and tells Kawaki he's the only one who can get it back. Kurobane sends his blade at Kawaki again, but Boruto arrives, breaking it with a
Rasengan
. He attempts to escape, but is
stopped
 by Shikadai. Kawaki pummels Kurobane and checks on Mozuku. He asks Kawaki to deliver the medicine to his nation in his stead,
his sensei
 being in a nearby checkpoint. He gives him his money, his thanks, and dies. Kawaki takes the medicine, Boruto and Shikadai go with him. They come across more pursuers, so the two stay behind to deal with them while Kawaki goes on ahead. Kawaki reaches the checkpoint, and Mozuku's sensei asks about him, recognising the package. An enemy appears and holds a kunai to him, asking for the package. Kawaki hands him the empty box and defeats him, giving its actual contents to Mozuku's sensei. He mourns Mozuku's death and Kawaki informs him Mozuku's body is in the forest. He thanks Kawaki and leaves. Boruto and Shikadai arrive, and three go back to Konoha as it begins to rain. Kawaki blames his disobedience for Mozuku's death, thinking himself unfit for being a shinobi, despite Shikadai pointing out there are always unforeseen circumstances. Kawaki passes out. Back in Konoha, while they can't directly intervene with the Land of Calm Seas daimyō, they can organise aid relief with the
medical-nin
. Boruto informs Naruto that Kawaki and Chōchō are doing better. Sarada visits Chōchō, and tells her how Kawaki is doing. Boruto and Mitsuki visit him, bringing him a bag full of taiyaki, and are concerned about him after they leave. Kawaki leaves the hospital and runs into Shikadai, who takes him to the
Konoha Cemetery
. He shows
his grandfather
's grave, and tells how everyone there died for the village. Shikadai explains that as team-mates, they share the joys, sorrows, pain together, and that as team captain, the mission was his responsibility. They have to move forward because they're alive. Later, Naruto checks on Kawaki, who wants to keep trying at being shinobi no matter how long it takes. Naruto tells him that based on Shikadai's report, despite his issues, he can carry out missions as a genin, so he won't take another exam because he passed. He'll accompany Naruto on missions. He points out that Mozuku gave his life for his country, and asks what is a shinobi exactly. Naruto says he'll have to work out that answer himself. Kawaki is committed to never make the same mistake again and get stronger.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Kawaki
Yuma Uchida
内田 雄馬
Uchida Yūma
Shikadai Nara
Kensho Ono
小野 賢章
Ono Kenshō
Chōchō Akimichi
Ryoko Shiraishi
白石 涼子
Shiraishi Ryōko
Mozuku
Sara Matsumoto
松本 沙羅
Matsumoto Sara
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Shikamaru Nara
Shotaro Morikubo
森久保 祥太郎
Morikubo Shōtarō
Konohamaru Sarutobi
Hidenori Takahashi
高橋 英則
Takahashi Hidenori
Kurobane
Tarusuke Shingaki
新垣 樽助
Shingaki Tarusuke
Client
Kazuya Saji
佐治 和也
Saji Kazuya
Konoha shinobi messenger
Ryo Nishitani
西谷 亮
Nishitani Ryō
Land of Calm Seas shinobi
Katsunori Okai
岡井 カツノリ
Okai Katsunori
Aosa
Jin Domon
土門 仁
Domon Jin