"
A Wound on the Heart
" (
心の傷口
,
Kokoro no Kizuguchi
) is episode 105 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Mitsuki
 visits
Orochimaru
 in
Otogakure
 saying he's not feeling well. Mitsuki reports he's been having dreams since meeting
Ōnoki
, of when he first saw
Boruto
's picture. While they examine Mitsuki, Orochimaru and
Log
 discuss the possibility of the
Iwagakure
 incident having affected Mitsuki emotionally, in a way that is only now surfacing. Orochimaru and Log look through Mitsuki's memories starting when he met Ōnoki, and comment on Mitsuki's self-reflection. The ponder the meaning and intent behind Mitsuki's actions as he met with the
Fabrications
, and later going with them to Iwagakure. Log is concerned about the effects having had to attack Boruto to gain the Fabrications' trust had on Mitsuki. The two are concerned when they realise there's a chance Mitsuki might know they're the ones who instigated his interest in Boruto.
 Orochimaru wants to erase Mitsuki's memory, fearing that his rapid psychological development is outpacing his brain's ability to sustain it. They continue to review Mitsuki's memories, now going through his betrayal of
Kū
 and
Sekiei
's death. As they finish reviewing Mitsuki's memories of the Iwagakure incident, Log is unsure if they should erase Mitsuki's memories. Orochimaru leaves the room. When Mitsuki wakes up, Orochimaru tells he'll continue to hurt, and gives him the choice of making it go away at the cost of his memories. Mitsuki wakes up at home, woken up by
Mikazuki
, and hears Boruto at his door, telling him
Sarada
 wants to see Mikazuki. Log is relieved that they didn't have to erase Mitsuki's memories. Orochimaru says there might come a day when they'll need to do it, but thinks that Mitsuki will be able to overcome such a need.

Trivia

This episode functions as a clip show of the events of the
Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc
.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Orochimaru
Kujira
くじら
Kujira
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Mikazuki
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro