"
A Wound That Never Heals
" (
癒えない傷
,
Ienai Kizu
) is episode 259 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Team 7
 is assigned a mission to investigate a string of attacks on ex-shinobi in the village. They find another victim with slashed clothing.
Boruto
 has heard rumours it might be a weasel, but the others think it's a human culprit. The next day, they confirm with the
Konoha Police Force
 that the latest victim is a former shinobi from another village, who specialised in
Wind Release
. Based on method, they believe all ex-shinobi were attacked by the same person.
Kawaki
 suggests guarding all ex-shinobi users of Wind Release, but Boruto points out too many people fit that description. Team 7 is asked to continue nightly patrols. Boruto and
Sarada
 notice
Mitsuki
 is distracted, and he explains that
Mikazuki
 hasn't shown since returning from
Kirigakure
. Kawaki asks what Mikazuki looks like, and Boruto suggests putting up missing posters. They decide to rest, and suggest Mitsuki do the same. Mitsuki asks around, but finds nothing. He finds a girl playing the flute, and Mikazuki approaches her, though she calls it Niboshi. It recognises Mitsuki when called Mikazuki. She explains she found it in pain next to her house, so she took it to the vet. After giving it food, Mikazuki decided to stay.
 Mitsuki notes she knows more about Mikazuki than he does, and she finds it nice that Mikazuki has the freedom to go wherever they want. She explains that since moving to
Konoha
 one year ago, she has had to help her
older brother
. He asks her to look after Mikazuki when he's away on missions. Hibiki's brother calls out to her. After Mitsuki leaves, her brother reminds her not to befriend shinobi. Another ex-shinobi is attacked, and Team 7 pursues them, Mitsuki managing to injure one of two assailants on the arm. He stops at Hibiki's brother's oden cart, asking if he saw the assailants. He claims they escaped to the roof. Mitsuki notices blood by the stand, but tells the team to resume pursuit while he goes check on the victim.
Hibiki
 hides injured behind the stand. In their apartment, Hibiki's brother tends to her injury. She wonders if they should stop. He says they only have one more target before he can assure she has a normal life. The public pressures the police upon learning of another attack. The police reports to Team 7 that there was a smell of smoke on the victims clothes, and they speculate this might be how they're knocked unconscious. They wonder if the slashed clothes means they're looking for something, and are waiting for more information on similar incidents in other villages. The shopkeeper Mitsuki spoke to, also an ex-shinobi, reads about the attacks on the newspaper. He throws a rock at Mikazuki when taking out the trash. Mitsuki thinks back to the
Rain Killer
 incident. He asks Hibiki who the next target is. She explains her father was a shinobi who was killed by a thief who used Wind Release, who was left with a scar on his chest by her father's sword. Mitsuki reveals he failed to stop someone like them in the past, wishing to avoid past mistakes. He asks that she turn herself in. She thanks Mitsuki for letting her go once, and leaves. At night, the police learns that a person of interest in a series of robberies and murders is living in Konoha. Hibiki and her brother use sleeping smoke on the Matsushige shopkeeper, but reading about it on the newspaper allowed him to counter it. They ask if he has a scar on his chest.
Kōtarō Fūma
 reports to Team 7 that
Daizen Matsushige
 is a Wind Release user who was a witness to robberies and murders. Mitsuki realises he's the shopkeeper he spoke with and rushes ahead. Daizen intends to kill Hibiki and her brother in self-defence, and attacks with the
Sickle Weasel Technique
, which Hibiki's brother recognises. Mitsuki blocks an attack with his
Lightning Release: Snake Lightning
. Team 7 and Kōtarō arrive, Daizen accusing Hibiki and her brother of being behind the slashing attacks, Hibiki accusing Daizen of having the scar that proves he killed her father. Daizen shows his chest, bearing no scar, but Mikazuki jumps on him, scratching his chest, removing the disguise and revealing the scar. He says the scar isn't proof of any crime, but Mitsuki points out the injury he gave Hibiki with his Wind Release. Kōtarō intends to compare it with injuries from the other robberies and murders. Daizen tries running away, but Mitsuki stops him with
Wind Release: Breakthrough
. Daizen was planning to commit the same crimes in Konoha, so Hibiki and her brother are only banished from the village. However, since Mitsuki withheld his knowledge of their guilt, he's on administrative leave for a week. He bids Hibiki and her brother farewell, and she gives him niboshi to feed Mikazuki.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Sarada
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Mikazuki
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Boruto
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Alley cat
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Kawaki
Yuma Uchida
内田 雄馬
Uchida Yūma
Hibiki
Moe Toyota
豊田 萌絵
Toyota Moe
Kodama
Koji Takahashi
高橋 孝治
Takahashi Kōji
Daizen Matsushige
Fukushi Ochiai
落合 福嗣
Ochiai Fukushi
Kōtarō Fūma
Anri Katsu
勝 杏里
Katsu Anri
Police force shinobi
Hirokazu Sekido
関戸 博一
Sekido Hirokazu
Old lady
Chihiro Ikki
一木 千洋
Ikki Chihiro
Old man
Shinya Hamazoe
浜添 伸也
Hamazoe Shin'ya
Former Wind Release user shinobi
Kazuya Saji
Ryo Nishitani
佐治 和也
西谷 亮
Saji Kazuya
Nishitani Ryō