This is a
sealing technique
 that is characteristic of the
Uzumaki clan
.
 Users produce chains made out of their own
chakra
, which typically emerge from their torso. Users control the chains as they extend outwards from their body, most commonly to wrap around targets and restrain them.
 The chains are extremely durable, enough that even the
Nine-Tails
 would struggle to destroy them.
 In the anime, in addition to physically binding targets, the chains are said to neutralise their target by binding and nullifying their chakra.
 Depending on the number and the length of chains that users intend to produce, they may prefer to initially create only a few chains, which they send underground to split apart and spread around the area as needed, leaving their immediate surroundings uncluttered.

The chains creating a barrier.
The chains binding the Nine-Tails within Kushina's subconscious.
1/2

A
barrier
 can be erected between two or more sealing chains, which is quite impregnable:
Kushina Uzumaki
 creates such a barrier to not only prevent the Nine-Tails from escaping a defined area, but also to prevent the
Third Hokage
 from entering it.
 Because the chains are made of the user's chakra, the chains can be produced anywhere the user's chakra resides. When she was the Nine-Tails'
jinchūriki
, Kushina used the chains to bind the Nine-Tails within her subconscious,
 and for this reason she never once lost control of its power.
 After her death, some of Kushina's chakra was sealed within her son,
Naruto Uzumaki
, allowing her to produce the chains from his body in order to help him combat the Nine-Tails.

During the
Fourth Shinobi World War
,
Karin
 awakens the ability to produce similar chains, which she uses to lash against and ultimately destroy a
wooden
 opponent.
Orochimaru
 labels this the same ability as Kushina possessed,
 but
Jin no Sho
 describes it only as a "glimpse" of Kushina's Adamantine Sealing Chains.

See Also

Beast Sealing Technique

Demonic Statue Chains

References