"
Ah, the Medicine of Youth
" (
ああ、青春の漢方丸
,
Ā, Seishun no Kanpōgan
) is episode 186 of the
Naruto: Shippūden
 anime.

Synopsis

Lee
 visits
Tsunade
's tent and gives
Sakura
 a special medicine that
Guy
 had prepared for her, citing that he would do anything to help the comatose
Hokage
 as it was she who healed Lee when no one else could; Lee and Sakura reminisce back to when Lee was severely injured and had difficulty recuperating.

After
Naruto
 carelessly drank the last of Lee's special medicine, he vowed to go to retrieve the
Jofuku Flowers
 needed to make the medicine. Despite being assigned to a mission with
Ino
 and Sakura, Naruto decided to abandon the mission and find the flowers instead. Dressing up in the green jumpsuit that Guy had
given
 him, Naruto set off towards the
Jofuku Forest
, only to discover that his assigned mission was coincidentally to go into that very forest and deliver a message to a woman who lives there.

As they began their journey, Sakura mused how Lee had lost his optimism and Ino berated Naruto for giving him false hope that he may successfully recover. Naruto responded that ever since he witnessed Lee trying to continue his fight with
Gaara
 despite
losing consciousness
, he knew Lee never gave up, and thus he would always give Lee hope that he would someday recover. As they made their way to the forest, Naruto located the Jofuku flower, which Ino was surprised glowed in different colours. After making a jab at Ino for not knowing about the flower despite being a florist, Naruto plucked the flower, only to be attacked by an apparition of Gaara. Naruto channelled his inner
taijutsu
 and emulated Lee's moves, but his blows were blocked by the apparition's
Sand Armour
. Resorting to
ninjutsu
, Naruto used his
Naruto Uzumaki Combo
 to defeat the apparition and finished it off with his
Rasengan
, destroying it.

Furofuki
, the woman who lived by the forest, accepted the letter the team was assigned to deliver, which was a request from Guy to haul back the Jofuku flowers to Konoha (revealing that Naruto's self-appointed quest was the very mission he was assigned); she also explained that the Gaara they saw was a protective element emitted by the flowers, which took on the image of the archenemy of whomever plucked the flower. Back in the village, Guy told Lee that the medicine he made was made from the sweat, tears and love of himself and the three who procured the ingredients. After discovering that Sakura was on the team, he stated that he would eat a hundred per day since Sakura's love was infused in the medicine, while Guy performed a thousand push-ups as moral support.

Trivia

When Naruto plucks the Jofuku flower, it scans his mind and takes on the appearance of his archenemy, taking on the image of Gaara. However, the apparition is seen to be wearing Gaara's outfit from the end of Part I. Since this episode takes place before the
Sasuke Recovery Mission
, Naruto had not seen Gaara's new outfit yet and thus the apparition should have shown him wearing his older outfit, which he had worn during the
Chūnin Exams
.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Maile Flanagan
Sakura Haruno
Chie Nakamura
中村 千絵
Nakamura Chie
Kate Higgins
Rock Lee
Yoichi Masukawa
増川 洋一
Masukawa Yōichi
Brian Donovan
Ino Yamanaka
Ryoka Yuzuki
柚木 涼香
Yuzuki Ryōka
Colleen O'Shaughnessey
Might Guy
Masashi Ebara
江原 正士
Ebara Masashi
Skip Stellrecht
Furofuki
Ikuko Watanabe
渡辺 育子
Watanabe Ikuko
Colleen O'Shaughnessey
Tea shop granny
Ena Shimokawa
下川 江那
Shimokawa Ena
Mona Marshall
Traveller
Masami Azuma
東 正実
Azuma Masami
Foreign traveller
Kengo Kawanishi
河西 健吾
Kawanishi Kengo
Mona Marshall