The
Akimichi Clan
 (
秋道一族
,
Akimichi Ichizoku
) is a well known clan of
Konohagakure
.
 Many of their clan's techniques revolve around the
manipulation of their bodyweight and size
 through the use of
Yang Release
. It has had fifteen family heads, with
Chōza Akimichi
 being the fifteenth.
Chōji Akimichi
 is stated to become the sixteenth head.

Overview





Members of the Akimichi clan.



Members of the clan possess great physical strength and are able to quickly convert calories into chakra, which they then use in their various
secret
 techniques. Most of these techniques rapidly consume the user's chakra during use, and maintaining them during a prolonged battle can be tiring. For this reason the Akimichi have high chakra levels and eat a lot in order to build up or replenish their chakra reserves.
 As a tribute, members of the clan wear the kanji for "food" (
食
,
shoku
) on the their clothing. If standard calories aren't enough for a battle, Akimichi can use the clan's
Three Coloured Pills
 to convert excess fat into chakra, at the cost of one's health.

Many Akimichi use a
bō
 as their weapon of choice. These have the ability to lengthen in proportion to their wielder's size. These weapons also have small appendages at the top of them. These clan members have all also been depicted with markings of sorts on their cheeks and most of them have been seen wearing
plate armour
, both with and without flak jackets.

The Akimichi clan has a
special relationship
 with the
Nara
 and
Yamanaka clan
. For generations, members of these three families have formed "Ino–Shika–Chō" trios, named after the first part of the names of the members with the Akimichi members being the "Chō" in the trio. To strengthen the unity between the three clans, a member of the
Sarutobi clan
 will give them special earrings to present to each generation head when they are promoted to
chūnin
 after which they will swear their oaths. The earrings also symbolise that they are considered adults by their respective clans.

Leaders

Fourteen previous Heads

Chōza Akimichi
: Fifteenth Head

Chōji Akimichi
: Sixteenth Head

Other Notable Clan Members

During the
Fourth Shinobi World War
 two members of the clan were assigned to guard the entrance to the
Logistical Support and Medical Division
's compound.
 One of them are later seen guarding Shizune and Sakura as they inspect the corpse of a White Zetsu.

Also during the Fourth Shinobi World War, another Akimichi assisted Chōji and Maruten in stopping one of the
Ten-Tails
' attack.

Another Akimichi with an x-shaped marking on his cheek was seen alongside
Hiashi Hyūga
 on the battlefield when the
Ten-Tails
' body disappeared. He questioned whether or not the beast had been defeated when it disappeared from the battlefield.

Trivia

The name "Akimichi" literally means "autumn road" (
秋道
), referring to the time of harvest as well as the streets where vendors sell food.

"Ino", "Shika" and "Chō" are the names of three cards needed for a highly prized trick of "Inoshikachō" in the
Hanafuda
.

References