The
Allied Shinobi Forces
 (
忍連合軍
,
Shinobi Rengōgun
) was a coalition between the collective military might of the
shinobi
 nations of the Lands of
Lightning
,
Water
,
Earth
,
Wind
, and
Fire
, and the lone
samurai
 nation of the
Land of Iron
.

Background

The purpose of this alliance is to stand up together against the threat of the
Akatsuki
 organisation and the
tailed beasts
 in the
Fourth Shinobi World War
. Because of the deceitful actions of the Sixth
Hokage
 Candidate
Danzō Shimura
, the other
Kage
 asked
Kakashi Hatake
 about
Konohagakure
's entrance into the alliance as they deemed him the most suitable candidate to assume the office. However, before Kakashi was made Hokage,
Tsunade
 woke up from her coma, and resumed her post. After the summit, the five
daimyō
 agreed to give power to their Hidden Villages, making the Shinobi Allied Forces official.

The coalition was formed after
Tobi
's declaration of
war
 after the five
Kage
 and the head of the Land of Iron, Mifune, unanimously refused to hand over
Killer B
 and
Naruto Uzumaki
, the
jinchūriki
 of the
Eight-Tails
 and the
Nine-Tailed Demon Fox
 respectively at the
Kage Summit
. When Tobi departed, the Kage and
Mifune
 discussed their plans on dealing with Tobi and the tailed beasts and later Mifune suggested that the
Fourth Raikage
 be the
Supreme Leader
 (
大権
,
Taiken
) of the alliance to which the other Kage agreed.

The coalition's primary objective was to defend the Eight-Tails and Nine-Tails' jinchūriki from Akatsuki. The two jinchūriki, once caught, will complete Tobi's
Eye of the Moon Plan
. Therefore, the coalition planned to first find the two jinchūriki before Akatsuki finds them and keep them safe and away from the battlefield if necessary. Beyond that, their duty is to put up a united front against Akatsuki's army.

Unification






The forehead protector of the Allied Forces.



At the suggestion of the
Fifth Mizukage
, the five Kage agreed to merge their intelligence unit into a single, separate organisation, to optimise the processing and sharing of new information. This is a significant development with even the
Third Tsuchikage
 agreeing without hesitation, despite his past prejudices and the potential damage such an organisation could cause for his own intelligence forces if they should win the war; which demonstrates how significantly they are treating Tobi as a threat.

To show their unification, Mifune has designed a
forehead protector
 with the kanji "Shinobi" (
忍
) on it. All members of the alliance wear this in place of their original forehead protectors, to show that everyone is truly united under one banner, as opposed to being separated into five different villages. Most members of the alliance also took to wearing the basic uniform of their village, albeit with the new forehead protector to unify them.

Conflict

The first internal dissent came from the
Fifth Hokage
 who originally strongly disagreed with the other leaders' decision for the
jinchūriki
 were to be hidden instead of being their main forces of war, and due to her past defence of Naruto, she probably only relented due to the need for a united front. As the forces gathered, there was some tension between the ninja of different villages that led to arguments and conflict due to past experiences, until Gaara made his speech that got them to cooperate more willingly.

Externally, the
Water Daimyō
 expressed extreme reluctance to agreeing to this alliance since it would give the shinobi even greater power, despite its necessity to stand up to Akatsuki's terrorism.

Later on, when
Naruto Uzumaki
 and
Killer B
 escaped from confinement to participate in the war, A decided it was best to kill Naruto for not submitting to his orders. Because A's decision was not sanctioned by the rest of the Kage and the high losses on the Allied Forces side, Tsunade decides to confront A and allow Naruto's involvement. After a long fight, A admits defeat to Naruto and allows him and B to pass.

Composition






The Allied Forces.



The Allied Shinobi Forces total army had around 80,000 people, among them shinobi and samurai alike.
 By the end of first day of battles, the army lost half of its soldiers.
 The alliance base of operations is located south-east of
Kumogakure
, on the east coast of the
Land of Lightning
.
 In order to prepare for battle, the ninja have been divided up into nine divisions pooling together ninja with similar abilities. The
Great Battle Regiment
 (
戦闘大連隊
,
Sentō Dairentai
) is divided into five divisions that are each lead by a
commander
 (
部隊長
,
butaichō
), with
Gaara
, the Fifth Kazekage, acting as the
Regimental Commander
 (
連隊長
,
Rentaichō
) of the entire regiment. Similarly there are four supporting divisions for the army each headed by a
captain
 (
隊長
,
taichō
), as well as special teams within the great regiments which are specialised in the usage of certain
chakra natures
.
 Furthermore, within each division there are subsets of teams such as the:
Sealing Team
 (
封印班
,
Fūinhan
) to help seal those reincarnated through the
Summoning: Impure World Reincarnation
 technique and the
Communications Team
 (
連絡班
,
Renrakuhan
) whose job is to stay in contact with headquarters as well as other divisions in order to receive and pass on intelligence quickly and efficiently. Because of the fact that they could be used as high priority ransom pieces in the war, the
daimyō
 were also assigned to a
protection squad
, which is led by
Mei Terumī
, the Fifth Mizukage. The anime shows that the army also contains the special
Water Attack Raid Unit
, which is seemingly specialised in aquatic combat.






Inside allied headquarters.



At the headquarters of the Alliance, the Kage are seated at the front of the room at a table filled with the intel that they have garnered from reports as well as intelligence that was previously gathered. The heads of the Intelligence and Sensor Division:
Inoichi
 and
Ao
 respectively, are also stationed at the headquarters along with other members of their division. Inoichi along with two other shinobi from his division are hooked up to a large-scale version of the
Chakra Transmission Communication Device
 that is on the direct opposite side of the room which allows them the receive and transmit intelligence to relevant parties. He also uses the machine in conjunction with his own
telepathic abilities
 to allow others to communicate with shinobi on the front lines or anywhere on the battlefield. Ao, along with four other
sensors
 maintain the
Sensing Barrier
 located in the centre of the room. The barrier covers the entire battlefield and works closely with the Intelligence division as they are able to detect the size of the opposing side's chakra as well as tell sheer number of persons in any given area. Additionally,
Shikaku Nara
 was also selected to remain at headquarters as the Alliance's
Chief Strategist
 where he devises attack, counter-attack patterns, defensive manoeuvres as well as back-up strategies. The main divisions of the alliance is comprised of the following:

Supporting Divisions

Surprise Attack Division

Captain:
Kankurō


Logistical Support and Medical Division

Captain:
Shizune


Intelligence Division

Captain:
Inoichi Yamanaka


Sensor Division

Captain:
Ao


Great Battle Regiment

First Division

Mid-Range Battle Division

Commander:
Darui


Second Division

Short-Range Battle Division

Commander:
Kitsuchi


Third Division

Short-to-Mid-Range Battle Division

Commander:
Kakashi Hatake


Fourth Division

Long-Range Battle Division

Commander:
Gaara


Proxy (
代理
,
dairi
) Commander:
Shikamaru Nara


Fifth Division

Special Battle Division

Commander:
Mifune


Post-Fourth Shinobi World War

In the aftermath of the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, all five great nations and the Land of Iron had suffered crippling losses of personnel, with
Kumogakure
 being nearly completely destroyed by the
Ten-Tails
'
Tailed Beast Ball
 which had wiped out the Allied Headquarters which was located near the village. To recover from these losses, the Allied Shinobi Forces transitioned into the
Shinobi Union
 which sped the recovery efforts up as well as opened the door for smaller shinobi villages, such as
Amegakure
 or
Kusagakure
 to join as equal members, eliminating the need of war for resources.

The first true test for the Union was
Toneri Ōtsutsuki
's attempt to destroy humanity by using the
Tenseigan
 to crash the
Moon
 into the earth, sending barrages of asteroids and meteorites crashing to Earth. Due to the Shinobi Union's unity and resources, it was able to fend off these attacks while letting the
Hanabi Rescue Team
, which was led by the Union's leader
Shikamaru Nara
 as well as the War's hero
Naruto Uzumaki
, to confront Toneri and defeat him. Due to these efforts, the Earth was saved and the Union had survived the test now stronger than before.

Several years after Toneri's attempt, the Union's success had caused a technological revolution with modern laptops being created and used for everyday tasks, as well as cities growing around the Shinobi Villages such as
Konohagakure
 due to prosperity. Naruto Uzumaki, the Seventh Hokage, could also meet with the Kage of the Five Great Countries within Konoha without any neutral location, showing a new era of trust between shinobi.

The next test for the Union to come is the threat in the forms of
Momoshiki
 and
Kinshiki
, two beings that have the
Byakugan
 and the
Rinnegan
.

Trivia

In the anime,
Victor
 was a member of the Allied Shinobi Forces despite hailing from the
Land of Valleys
, who were not affiliated with the Alliance. It is possible he originated from one of the Five Great Shinobi Nations, but immigrated away after the war. He ultimately betrayed the alliance by harvesting the remnants of the God Tree to recreate one for himself in the future.

References