This article is about the chapter. For the character, see
Amado Sanzu
.

"
Amado
" (
アマド
,
Amado
) is chapter 44 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 manga.

Summary

Naruto
 wakes up in the hospital, surrounded by his family.
Boruto
 leaves to go tell
Kawaki
.
Katasuke
 explains to Kawaki that his discomfort is possibly due to his modified body rejecting a the chakra-incompatible prosthetic. Kawaki rejects
Sumire
's offer to administer painkillers. Katasuke regrets not knowing enough about Kawaki's physiology to properly treat him. Boruto arrives and tells Kawaki that Naruto is awake.
Shikamaru
 updates Naruto on what he has missed, and that despite his successful rescue, they can't condone the genin's rashness. He stresses they're still under threat, as
Jigen
 can use Kawaki's
Kāma
 to infiltrate them again.
Koji
 and
Amado
 prepare to leave. Amado assures Koji his light packing is enough. Koji summons his toad.
Delta
 arrives, asking where they're going without Jigen's leave. Koji offers to deal with Delta, but Amado merely issues a shutdown command, causing Delta to fall unconscious. Koji wonders if he's been similarly programmed. Amado boards Koji's toad, Koji gives him directions for his destination, and reverse summons his toad. Amado arrives at the outskirts of
Konohagakure
 while Koji heads forward in Kara's headquarters.
Sarada
 tells her parents how the battle transpired, and how Boruto changed during it. Sarada is concerned about Boruto, but
Sakura
 and
Sasuke
 urge her to recover now so she can help him later.
Mitsuki
 asks to have a word with Sasuke, and tells him of
Boro
's description of Boruto as
Momoshiki
's vessel.
 They conjecture on Momoshiki's motive for giving Boruto the Kāma, and how that applies to Kawaki, though Sasuke is confused by his impression that Jigen, who granted Kawaki his Kāma, is a vessel for
another Ōtsutsuki
.
Team 10
 spar against one another. Amado praises them, and requests an audience with Shikamaru.
Shikadai
 attempts to
paralyse
 him, but Amado employs a tuning fork-like tool that allows him to hijack his jutsu. He drugs Shikadai and straps a collar to his neck.
Inojin

contacts
 his mother, asking to contact Shikamaru immediately. Naruto and Shikamaru visit Kawaki. Shikamaru wants even tighter security on Kawaki, who concedes.
Ino
 contacts Shikamaru, and explains someone claiming to be from Kara has strapped a bomb to Shikadai. Other shinobi, among them
Sai
 and
Moegi
 were dispatched and are at their location. Moegi separates Amado from Shikadai and restrains him with
Earth Release
. Without movement, Amado demonstrates what the bomb collar is capable of on a tree, and reveals Shikadai's is programmed to detonate in forty-eight hours unless he disarms it. Sai orders her to release Amado, which she does. Amado apologises for his drastic measures, but assures them time is critical. Ino connects Shikamaru to Amado, who explains he's coming for him, since decision making authority rests on him with the
Hokage
 being unavailable. Shikamaru takes this as proof of Amado's
Kara
 membership. Shikamaru reveals to Amado that they've actually recovered Naruto already, surprising him. Kawaki confirms Amado's voice. Naruto joins the conversation, and Amado is glad for it, as his risking his life is made more worth it. Amado expresses his wish to defect to Konohagakure, in return for intel on Kara, Jigen, his
Ten-Tails
, and the
Ōtsutsuki
.

Trivia

When Moegi restrains Amado, Shikadai is mistakenly drawn without the bomb collar on his neck.