The
Amagiri Clan
 (
天霧一族
,
Amagiri Ichizoku
) is a clan that founded
Yumegakure
, and one of the three clans that hail from the village.

Background

The Amagiri clan founded and led Yumegakure at some point of the past. Later on, the
Tenrō clan
 came, using the
Three-Heads
' sealing technique as a shield and slowly took over the village. When a Tenrō became village chief, the Amagiri clan's history of oppression began. All the blame for the poverty of the village and the wars that brought even more sacrifices went to the Amagiri and they were exiled from the village. The path they walked after that was truly one of thorns, as
Gensui
 describes it. Because of this, Gensui sought vengeance on the Tenrō, planning to use the Three-Heads to get revenge.

Appearance

A defining trait of the Amagiri clan is that all its members wear
samurai
-like attire, usually having pinkish-red and purple colours on them and sometimes a little gold. Many members also wear special clawed sandals to better move around in the forest. All of them have pinkish-red markings on their faces that differ from person to person, but all have a marking on their lower foreheads, usually a triangle pointing downward.

Abilities

Many members of this clan use the
Poison Mist
 in battle and also poisonous insects that are roughly the size of large rats. Besides having poisonous stingers, these insects can instantly emit a poison cloud when defeated. Some members have also been shown using a yellow mist that paralyses the target and some carry scrolls that can dispel poison and/or paralysis. Chūnin-level shinobi from the clan have been shown using
kusarigama
 which they can
enhance
 with
fire
-natured chakra.

Trivia

天霧 (
Amagiri
) means "heavenly mist" and is also the name of a
Japanese Destroyer
 and a
castle
 in Zentsūji, Kagawa, Japan, which is considered a site of national significance.

The facial markings of the clan, in particular the red triangle on the forehead, is a trait shared by many villagers in the opening of the game, this could mean that only a portion of the clan was exiled or gradually allowed reentry into the village. Alternatively it could be a cultural trait in the village, a theory supported by the fact that it is shared by the Tenrō clan.