This article is about the Naruto: Shippūden episode. For the technique, see
Amaterasu
.

"
Amaterasu!
" (
天照
,
Amaterasu
) is episode 137 of the
Naruto: Shippūden
 anime.

Synopsis

Itachi
 manages to extract
Sasuke
's right
Sharingan
 eye and attempts to remove his left eye as well, only for Sasuke to enter into the second stage of his
cursed seal
, using his only remaining wing to push Itachi away. Itachi, though, uses a
shadow clone
 to bind Sasuke from behind while he approaches his brother and attempts to pull his left eye out. The entire ordeal, however, is revealed to be
Tsukuyomi
, a
Mangekyō Sharingan

genjutsu
 that Sasuke is able to break through, much to the shock and surprise of Itachi and
Zetsu
, who is discreetly observing the battle.

White Zetsu
 wonders how Sasuke was able to break out of it with his regular
Sharingan
, since the Mangekyō Sharingan is touted to be stronger, and
Black Zetsu
 claims that Sasuke's proficiency with his Sharingan exceeds Itachi's, likening it to a pebble being thrown by a master taking out a
shuriken
 thrown by a rookie. As Itachi is on his knees, reeling from the pain in his eyes, Sasuke
unseals
 and
summons
 two
fūma shuriken
, which he hurls at Itachi, hiding the second shuriken in the
shadow of the first
. Itachi barely manages to avoid being sliced by the two shuriken when Sasuke
pulls the shuriken
 with
wire strings
, stabbing Itachi. Zetsu wonders how Itachi could have gotten hit as he should be able to dodge such an attack; Itachi is revealed to be suffering from blurry vision after having used his Tsukuyomi. Upon seeing his dazed brother, Sasuke mocks his visual prowess before using his
Fire Release: Great Fireball Technique
 at Itachi. Itachi is barely able to evade it, leaping into the air, only for Sasuke to rush towards him with his
Chidori
 in hand.

Sasuke's Chidori manages to hit the ceiling, creating a massive hole; Itachi uses the Great Fireball Technique both offensively and defensively, propelling himself out of the Chidori's range. As they both land on the rooftop, they both use the Great Fireball Technique, their flames clashing against one another. Itachi unleashes the
Amaterasu
 ability from his right Mangekyō Sharingan to create inextinguishable black flames that smother Sasuke's orange flames and proceeds to burn Sasuke himself. Sasuke attempts to shield himself with his wing, only for the wing to burn off. As the Amaterasu attempts to consume him in flames, Sasuke reverts back to his normal state and uses his
Chidori Sharp Spear
 to create a hole beneath him while
shedding his skin
 to avoid being burned by Itachi's Amaterasu, having gained the ability to do so after absorbing
Orochimaru
.

Reactivating his cursed seal to its second stage once more, Sasuke uses the last of his
chakra
 to use
Fire Release: Great Dragon Fire Technique
, creating a dragon-head shaped fireball that bursts through the roof, narrowly missing Itachi and firing off into the clouds. As Sasuke's cursed seal recedes once more, Itachi, using his Sharingan to gauge Sasuke's chakra levels, claims that Sasuke has lost the battle. Sasuke, however, gives Itachi a smirk and asks if he would actually come to a death match unprepared, as storm clouds begin to rumble above them. Sasuke warns Itachi that his
next technique
 is unavoidable, just like the Amaterasu.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Sasuke Uchiha
Noriaki Sugiyama
杉山 紀彰
Sugiyama Noriaki
Yuri Lowenthal
Itachi Uchiha
Hideo Ishikawa
石川 英郎
Ishikawa Hideo
Crispin Freeman
Zetsu
Nobuo Tobita
飛田 展男
Tobita Nobuo
Travis Willingham
Fifth Hokage: Tsunade
Masako Katsuki
勝生 真沙子
Katsuki Masako
Debi Mae West
Shizune
Keiko Nemoto
根本 圭子
Nemoto Keiko
Megan Hollingshead