The
Ame Orphans
 were three children who lost their parents due to
Amegakure
's involvement in the
Second Shinobi World War
.

Background






The orphans ask the Sannin to teach them ninjutsu.



Nagato
,
Konan
, and
Yahiko
 met after the deaths of their parents; Konan and Yahiko met first, with the two meeting Nagato sometime later. The three, as well as their dog,
Chibi
,  banded together to forage for food and shelter. Though able to avoid the conflicts of the war for a time, the orphans eventually got caught in the crossfire of
Hanzō
's battle with the
Sannin
, during which Chibi was killed. Afterwards, tired of being helpless victims of circumstance, they approached the Sannin and asked to be trained. One of the Sannin,
Jiraiya
, agreed and began to teach them
ninjutsu
 so that they could protect themselves and each other. Jiraiya established a
shelter
 for all of them to live in during their training.

After three years of training, Jiraiya was happy enough with their development that he returned to
Konoha
, leaving them to forge their own future. The three quickly gained a reputation to the point that news of their deeds even reached Konoha. Any group that opposed them would "wind up dead". Their group recruited new members, and with Yahiko as the leader, they planned to bring peace to Amegakure and the rest of the world. This group would be known as the original
Akatsuki
, the creation of which was supposedly encouraged by
Obito Uchiha
 as he introduced himself to them as "Madara".
 Though the three were sceptical, with Yahiko warning him to stay away from them, Obito states that he would revisit that spot every day until they understand his ideals and come to him willingly.






The first Akatsuki.



The orphans' dreams of peace made Hanzō, leader of Amegakure, nervous that Yahiko might usurp his rule. During the
Third Shinobi World War
, Hanzō teamed up with
Danzō Shimura
 in order to defeat the three of them, taking Konan hostage and ordering Nagato to kill Yahiko or forfeit Konan. Yahiko jumped on the kunai Nagato was holding so that Nagato wouldn't need to make the choice, resulting in his death. Hanzō and his men then tried to kill Nagato. Nagato easily deflected their attacks with
Shinra Tensei
. He rescued Konan at the cost of his legs, which had been burnt by Hanzō's
explosive tags
. Nagato resorted to the
Summoning: Demonic Statue of the Outer Path
 to kill all of Hanzō's men. Hanzō himself managed to escape the attack. The side effect of the technique impaled several chakra rods on Nagato's back. Now crippled from Hanzō's attack and severely emaciated which would last for the rest of his life, Nagato would create the
Six Paths of Pain
 technique, using Yahiko's corpse as the "Deva Path". At some point, news of his former apprentices being attacked reached Jiraiya and he believed that they had all been killed.






The shrine Konan built to house Nagato and Yahiko's corpses.



After Yahiko's death and conversion into the main body of his Pain alias, Nagato took over the group as their goal of bringing peace continued though it had veered off the course that Yahiko had wanted. He and Konan eventually turned to Obito who reformed the organisation into a criminal organisation for his own agenda. After
Pain's assault
 on Konoha, spurred by their fellow apprentice
Naruto Uzumaki
's words, Nagato sacrificed himself to undo the carnage he caused with Konan the sole surviving member of the Ame Orphans as she become Amegakure's new leader while creating a
shrine
 for her fallen friends. However, Konan later died fighting Obito before he raided the shrine to take Nagato's body and extract his
Rinnegan
.

Trivia

In the anime, within
Tsunade
's
Infinite Tsukuyomi
 dream, the trio called themselves "Team Jiraiya".

References