Amenotejikara
 is a
space–time ninjutsu
 used by
Sasuke Uchiha
 through the power of his
Rinnegan
, which was entrusted to him by the
Sage of Six Paths
.

Usage

Using his left eye, Sasuke can shift himself between spaces, causing anything currently occupying the space he targets to swap places with him.
 By shifting to another space during combat, Sasuke can avoid his opponent's techniques in an instant,
 and by swapping places with a weapon, such as his
sword
, he can leave behind a trap for an approaching enemy.
 He can also use it transport other people, which he can use to catch powerful foes like
Madara

off guard
.


 Sasuke can also use this technique to escape from restraints and bind an opponent in his place,
 or to discard any foreign weapons embedded in his body.
 Despite this technique stemming from his Rinnegan, Sasuke does not actually need to be looking at an object in order to swap places with it.

Sasuke can also target other objects and individuals with this technique in order to shift them to another space in his surroundings.
 This allows him to transport a weapon into his hand, or to project one of his techniques, such as the
Chidori
, to a remote location.
 By launching an attack and then bringing his opponent to him at the last possible moment, Sasuke can ensure that his techniques hit their mark.
 However, the opponent must be within a certain range of him for this to take effect, and with sufficient speed, it is possible to escape this technique's range before it can be activated.
 While storing the
chakra
 of the nine
tailed beasts
 within his
Susanoo
, Sasuke demonstrated the ability to shift both himself and his Susanoo behind
Naruto Uzumaki
, who was a considerable distance away.

Upon first obtaining his Rinnegan, Sasuke had to wait for his eye to recharge after using this technique several times in quick succession,
 and further overuse would cause his eye to bleed.
 In adulthood, Sasuke is able to use this technique even while his Rinnegan's ocular power is diminished due to using its
other abilities
.

Influence

This technique's name comes from
Ame-no-tajikarao
, the Japanese deity who used his brute strength to pull
Amaterasu
 out of the
cave
 where she was hiding from her
brother
, thus returning sunlight to the world. The technique's workings may be derived from the Iwato dance of the Sada Shrine; after Ame-no-tajikarao opens the cave and Amaterasu emerges, he takes her place inside the cave.

Trivia

According to Sasuke, this technique is a result of being blessed with the Sage of Six Paths' power.

Despite being a space–time ninjutsu rather than accelerated movement,
Naruto Uzumaki
 once described this technique as being similar to the
Body Flicker Technique
.

See Also

Body Replacement Technique

Flying Thunder God Mutually Instantaneous Revolving Technique

Flying Thunder God Technique

References