Using her
Rinne Sharingan
,
Kaguya Ōtsutsuki
 replaces the world around her with one of her
personal dimensions
; everyone near Kaguya at the time will experience the same change of place.
 Unlike most
space–time ninjutsu
, where users move themselves to a destination, Kaguya moves the destination to herself.
 To relocate such large dimensions requires an immense amount of
chakra
, so much so that only Kaguya is able to do so.
 However, even she will start to tire out if she uses Amenominaka too much.
 To an onlooker, Kaguya and everyone else will appear to simply vanish from the previous dimension they were in, without even a detectable trace of their chakra left behind.

Those affected by Amenominaka will maintain their positions relative to each other between dimensions, so that somebody approaching Kaguya in one dimension will still be approaching her in the next. Because Amenominaka works on everybody in the vicinity of Kaguya, she cannot use it to escape from attackers or to transport only certain individuals to other dimensions; for both purposes, she instead relies on
Yomotsu Hirasaka
.
 Kaguya does seem to have some control over where she and the others will appear within a dimension, giving her a strategic option: when first depicted, she shifts high into the air of her lava dimension, leaving her opponents to fall into the molten sea below;
 when she is being attacked by
Naruto Uzumaki
 and
Sasuke Uchiha
, she shifts to a part of her ice dimension that places Naruto and Sasuke within a glacier, trapping them and thus stopping their attack.

When
Kakashi Hatake
 first experiences Amenominaka, he believes it is the result of a
genjutsu
 because of how suddenly it happens and how stark the change is from where he was (
Earth
). It is only from noticing that the new world is too vast in size and intricate in detail that he realises it cannot be a mere illusion.
 He nevertheless revisits the genjutsu comparison later, noting that - from his perspective - Kaguya seems to be instantly rewriting reality with each use of Amenominaka.

Trivia

This technique's name comes from
Amenominakanushi
 (
天之御中主神
,
Heavenly Ancestral God of the Originating Heart of the Universe
), a Japanese deity who is said to be the
absolute centre
 of the universe, as well as the first
Hitorigami
 that came in to existence, and one of the five
Kotoamatsukami
.

Ultimate Ninja Storm 4
 gives each dimensional shift a unique name; Amenominaka: "Lava" (
熔
,
Yō
,
literally meaning:
 Corrosion), "Ice" (
氷
,
Hyō
), "Sand" (
砂
,
Masago
), as well as one for returning from her dimensions, "Return" (
戻
,
Modoshi
).

References