"
An Unnecessary Addition
" (
画蛇添足
,
Gadatensoku
) is episode 35 of the
Naruto: Shippūden
 anime.

Synopsis

Yamato
 assumes his position as interim captain of
Team Kakashi
; however, conflicts arrive when
Naruto
 opposes
Sai
's addition to the team, telling
Sakura
 that Sai had attacked him while he was with
Team 10
 earlier on in the day. Sai explains that his actions were merely to test Naruto's power, to which he has deduced that Naruto is nothing but a mere weakling. Naruto takes offence at his words, and attempts to strike Sai, only to be held back by Sakura. Sakura berates Sai's actions, but Sai states that he likes everyone, including ugly girls like Sakura. This only infuriates Sakura, but she is held back by Yamato before she can attack him. Yamato tells the team that their
mission
 is to apprehend
Sasori
's
spy
 at the
Tenchi Bridge
 in
Kusagakure
, and that the successful completion of their mission will lead to the assassination of
Orochimaru
 and possible retrieval of former Team Kakashi member
Sasuke Uchiha
. With that, Yamato dismisses the team, telling them to gather their belongings and to meet him at the front gates in an hour.

Sai heads to his room, packing his gear, when he is attacked by a
mysterious man
. The man is revealed to be a member of the
Anbu
, who came to provide a secret report commissioned by their superior,
Danzō Shimura
. After noticing that Sai is taking a remnant of his childhood with him, the man tells Sai to remember that as members of
Root
, they are to have no feelings or emotion, as they are the invisible root, the foundation, that holds up the tree known as
Konohagakure
. With that, the man departs. Naruto and Sakura walk back to their homes, with Sakura remarking that Sai reminds her of Sasuke. Naruto dismisses her opinion, citing that Sasuke is a million times better than Sai could ever be. Sakura and Naruto then go to their respective homes to pack their gear. Naruto glances at the official team photo of Team 7 and renews his original vow to rescue Sasuke.

Meanwhile,
Jiraiya
 arrives at the hospital to visit
Kakashi
. Giving Kakashi two volumes of
Icha Icha
, he states that he is also there to discuss something, although they must wait for
Tsunade
 and Yamato. Although Kakashi does not recognise the name of Yamato, he is told by Jiraiya that it is a code name and that he would recognise the man when he saw him. Tsunade and Yamato soon arrive at the hospital; Yamato is briefed by Kakashi regarding Naruto's
Version 1
 form, in which the
Nine-Tailed Fox
's
chakra
 would envelop Naruto, causing him to sprout a chakra tail and go berserk. Yamato is visibly stunned by this, and Kakashi explains that by using a
Chakra-Suppressing Seal
, he was able to stop Naruto at just two tails. Jiraiya, who was unaware that Naruto had activated the form in his
last mission
, becomes grim. Kakashi asks Jiraiya how many tails he himself had seen; taking off his shirt, Jiraiya tells them that he had only been close to death twice in his life. He explains that the first time was when he was caught peeking into a ladies' hot springs by Tsunade, at which the point Tsunade broke his arms and ribs and crushed his internal organs. Showing them a scar on his torso, he explains that the second time was when Naruto entered into a
four-tailed version
 of the Nine-Tails' cloak. This visibly worries the group, due to the fact that Naruto is able to grow up to nine tails.

Ready to meet Yamato, Sai and Naruto, Sakura spots Tsunade and
Shizune
 returning from the hospital. She asks if they could speak before she departs, and they convene in Tsunade's office. Tsunade asks Sakura to brief her regarding their initial encounter with Sai. Just then, Danzō enters the room, asking whether Tsunade has appointed an Anbu member on Team Kakashi. Tsunade tells him that Kakashi's replacement was a member of the Anbu from the
Third Hokage
's time; this prompts Danzō to state that he wishes that the replacement is not as passive or gentle as Sarutobi was, claiming that Sarutobi's gutless actions were unwarranted. As he leaves, Sakura asks who he is. Tsunade tells her that Danzō was a rival of her sensei, who also vied for the position of Hokage. She explains that unlike the Third's pacifist nature, Danzō is a hardened man of military mind, and that the two are polar opposites. While she herself does not trust Danzō, she tells Sakura that Danzō himself despises her for being the granddaughter of the
First Hokage
, whose teachings the Third passed on (thereby making him a passive fool in Danzō's eyes) and for being the student of the Third herself. Sakura then realises she's almost out of time and with Tsunade's blessing, she heads to the front gates to meet the rest of her team.

As the four members of Team Kakashi arrive at the gate, Yamato leads them on as they depart the village.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Maile Flanagan
Sakura Haruno
Chie Nakamura
中村 千絵
Nakamura Chie
Kate Higgins
Kakashi Hatake
Kazuhiko Inoue
井上 和彦
Inoue Kazuhiko
Dave Wittenberg
Yamato
Rikiya Koyama
小山 力也
Koyama Rikiya
Troy Baker
Sai
Satoshi Hino
日野 聡
Hino Satoshi
Benjamin Diskin
Jiraiya
Hochu Otsuka
大塚 芳忠
Ōtsuka Hōchū
David Lodge
Fifth Hokage: Tsunade
Masako Katsuki
勝生 真沙子
Katsuki Masako
Debi Mae West
Shizune
Keiko Nemoto
根本 圭子
Nemoto Keiko
Megan Hollingshead
Danzō
Hiroshi Ito
糸 博
Ito Hiroshi
William Knight
Anbu man
Kazuyuki Okitsu
興津 和幸
Okitsu Kazuyuki
Steve Blum