Konoha Anbu members.



The
Anbu
 (
暗部
,
English TV:
 Anbu Black Ops,
literally meaning:
 Dark Side), short for
Ansatsu Senjutsu Tokushu Butai
 (
暗殺戦術特殊部隊
,
literally meaning:
 Special Assassination and Tactical Squad), are covert operatives of capable ninja that are dispatched by their
village

leader
.
 There are apparently no true ranks within the Anbu; team leadership and hierarchy seem to be based on merit and experience, and skill levels from genin to jonin are found in the Anbu. The leaders of the teams are called squad leaders (
分隊長
,
Buntaichō
), a position held in high regard.

Overview

Because of the darkness involved in an Anbu's career, one's personality determines their eligibility into the force, leading to
exceptionally skilled shinobi
 whose personalities don't match the organisation to be rejected.
 As early as the
Academy
,
accomplished children
 are scouted to eventually join.
 While recruiting, shinobi are hand picked by their village leader, for their individual capabilities and special skills. Age, background, gender, or previous rank bear no significance in this decision; however, in tradition,
Konohagakure
 shinobi are not selected as Anbu unless they are at least 13 years old, with an 11-year-old
Itachi Uchiha
 being a rare exception.
 Once joined, they undergo training including studying of the human body, and begin wearing masks to conceal their identity, leading to them using code names to identify each other.

Anbu nearly always make an appearance on important
missions
 inside and in the vicinity of their village,
 but are mainly tasked with assassinations or disturbances in foreign countries.
 The assignments that they conduct to protect the village from exceptional threats include high-risk infiltration into enemy territory, dealing with extremely strong ninja, tracking, surveillance, interrogating enemy ninja to learn information and missions requiring specially trained ninja. Due to the actions of the group,
one
 can appear changed and corrupted of kindness.
 Due to the often sensitive nature of their missions and the unique abilities they sometimes possess, Anbu are expected to
destroy
 their bodies if they are too badly injured on a mission so that they can't be captured.





Kirigakure Anbu members.



In
Kirigakure
, there is a special branch of Anbu known as
hunter-nin
: hunter-nin track down and kill
missing-nin
 from Kiri, retrieving the head as proof and disposing of the rest of the body so as to not leave behind any information for their enemies. While Anbu are usually in squads and take orders from their captains, some elite Anbu have been handpicked by their Kage to serve directly under them. As such, any and all orders they receive come from their Kage and no one else. Anbu dislike letting anyone know their identities, and as such, most of Konoha's citizens aren't aware of who is and isn't an Anbu.





Konoha's Root division.



In Konoha, Anbu alongside the
Konoha Military Police Force
 are the two forces that maintain peace. As such, there is no clear line what is the jurisdiction of the police, and what is the subject for investigation by the Anbu. At the discretion of the
Hokage
, the nature of the investigation would simply shift from one to the other, leading to the two factions clashing.
 Because Anbu are so vital to the village's operations, they cannot be arrested by the police without a warrant.
 Konoha formerly had a special branch of Anbu called
Root
, which acted like a secret police force that maintained public order from underground.
 Its members were trained to abandon all forms of emotion in order to follow
Danzō Shimura
's orders without question, even at the consequence of the rest of the village.
 Root members had a
seal
 on their tongues that prevented members from speaking about their organisation.

After the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, in which the
Five Great Shinobi Countries
 decided to fully unite themselves for the sake of peace,
Kido Tsumiki
 believed that the stable peace would be inevitable for the Anbu to suffer a decrease in funding, as their services are no longer as vital. Kido had to orchestrate a few minor security incidents to ensure such funding will not be affected. He was eventually discovered and arrested for his crimes.

Uniform






Tenzō in his fully equipped Konoha Anbu garb.



Most Anbu wear some kind of mask to conceal their identities:

Konoha Anbu custom is to wear animal-styled porcelain masks, with some opting for more menacing-looking creatures.

Kiri Anbu wear masks with slits for eye-holes and the village's symbol etched into the forehead; these may or may not have patterns on them as well.

Sunagakure
 Anbu seem to wear pieces of cloth that resemble turbans to cover the lower-halves of their faces leaving only their eyes visible.

A regiment of Anbu from the
Land of Woods
 known as the
Prajñā Group
 wear porcelain masks as well, modelled to resemble
oni
.

In the anime, Anbu from
Hoshigakure
 are seen using masks similar to Konoha's.





Konoha's Anbu tattoo.



They also have standard uniforms which, for Konoha Anbu, consist of black clothing, a grey
flak jacket
, metal arm guards and gloves, ninja sandals with spikes for travelling into mountainous regions, three ninja pouches on their back-waist and a signature spiral tattoo on their shoulder. Some Konoha Anbu wear black cloaks over their standard uniforms, and squad leaders may wear white cloaks. Most of them carry a
sword
, which is usually strapped to their backs.

Trivia

Stemming from the secrecy surrounding the group's membership, people speculate that villagers who come and go from the village without eating are Anbu.

See Also

List of Anbu

References