"
Another Fierce Battle
" (
死闘、再び
,
Shitō, Futatabi
) is episode 248 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Metal Lee
 and
Boruto
 wait at the village for the return of
Denki
's group. The children rush back without Denki and
Iwabee
, and inform everyone that they were captured by the
Funato
.
Buntan
 and
Kawaki
 believe they're either dead or will be soon, recalling
Kagura
, but Metal is steadfast in believing they're ok, urging everyone to prepare to fight the Funato.
Mitsuki
 spots
Funamushi
's unit, with fewer people in it, but no sign of Denki and Iwabee. They have the villagers hide again,
Yamame
 and
Iwana
 understanding it, and asking Boruto to avenge Kagura.
Sarada
 takes note of the Funato positions. Buntan advises her not to be so tense before battle. Sarada stresses that as captain, it's her responsibility that no one dies. Metal is more nervous than usual, as winning this fight is necessary to see his
team-mates
 again.
Hebiichigo
 thinks back to Kagura, and shares that the reason she has survived so many battles is because during them, she fought thinking only of herself. At sundown, the Funato still haven't attacked. Kawaki wonders if they're trying to starve them out after learning their situation from Denki and Iwabee searching for food. Boruto doesn't think that's the case, recalling that Funamushi went straight for Kagura because he was avenging
Seiren
, and believes Funamushi is waiting for something.
 Buntan asks what they'll do about his
Water Release
. Boruto found the jutsu familiar, and asks Mitsuki about it. At night, Funamushi smells the tide in the wind, and decides to attack in the morning.
Gokai
 points out their dwindled numbers, and Funamushi's still healing body. Funamushi wants to attack soon before
Araumi
 forces their withdrawal, as he won't have another chance to avenge Seiren. The Funato begin to mobilise, and Sarada orders the
swordsmen
 and Metal to engage them. Sarada is leaving Funamushi to Boruto and Kawaki, since Boruto is his main target. Despite their diminished numbers, the remaining Funato are fighting harder, even sacrificing themselves to hold them in place for attacks. Funamushi arrives and attacks. Kawaki protects Boruto. Funamushi taunts Boruto, claiming Denki and Iwabee died begging for their lives. Boruto notices the Funato bringing Funamushi water barrels for his jutsu, which confirms his suspicion. He attacks Funamushi with
Lightning Release: Thunderclap Arrow
, having confirmed with Mitsuki that
Suigetsu
's similar jutsu also makes him vulnerable to
Lightning Release
, and that it's meant to be used in areas with unlimited water. If he times his attacks right, Funamushi can no longer use his Water Release. Kawaki notices Funamushi is still waiting for something, and it begins to rain, which allows to create a giant
water jellyfish
. With it, Funamushi beings attacking indiscriminately, even his own men in an attempt to avenge Seiren. Aware of the damage already inflicted on Funamushi, Boruto believes he can win by landing a
Rasengan
 in close range. Hebiichigo confirms that Boruto needs Funamushi to stay still for a moment. The rest of
Team 7
 draw Funamushi's attention, moving out of the way of his attacks. Hebiichigo is able to stop him, but something so big is hard to hold in place for long. Metal protects Hebiichigo while she holds Funamushi still. Some of the tentacles still prevent Boruto from getting close. Sarada, Mitsuki, and Buntan attack with Lightning Release from a distance. Funamushi breaks free and lands a hit on Hebiichigo. He also manages to swipe at Kawaki, and Boruto. Despite this, Boruto moves through the jellyfish, and lands his Rasengan. Funamushi manages to hold Boruto like he did Kagura, but Buntan stabs him, avenging Kagura. The Funato retreat. Hebiichigo dies from her injuries, thanking Metal for showing her possibilities other than fighting. She is buried besides Kagura. They mourn her, and the villagers begin to rebuild.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Kawaki
Yuma Uchida
内田 雄馬
Uchida Yūma
Metal Lee
Ryo Nishitani
西谷 亮
Nishitani Ryō
Buntan Kurosuki
Mariya Ise
伊瀬 茉莉也
Ise Mariya
Hebiichigo
Nao Toyama
東山 奈央
Tōyama Nao
Kyohō Fuefuki
Yasuhiro Mamiya
間宮 康弘
Mamiya Yasuhiro
Iwana
Seiyu Fujiwara
藤原 聖侑
Fujiwara Seiyū
Yamame
Keito Okuyama
奥山 敬人
Okuyama Keito
Children
Sara Matsumoto
Juri Nagatsuma
松本 沙羅
長妻 樹里
Matsumoto Sara
Nagatsuma Juri
Funamushi
Takahiro Fujiwara
藤原 貴弘
Fujiwara Takahiro
Gokai
Taito Ban
坂 泰斗
Ban Taito
Funato soldiers
Hirokazu Sekido
Kazuya Saji
Katsunori Okai
Kosuke Katayama
関戸 博一
佐治 和也
岡井 カツノリ
片山 公輔
Sekido Hirokazu
Saji Kazuya
Okai Katsunori
Katayama Kōsuke