Antidotes
 (
解毒薬
,
Gedokuyaku
) are types of medicines that act as a cure for various
poisons
. They can be administered to an infected person through several mediums. Some poisons are complex, and therefore creating the antidote will require careful attention or else it could potentially kill the victim; Sasori noted that when making antidotes not even a hairline mistake could be made or else it wouldn't work, if not end up worse than the ailment it was used upon in an attempt to cure. However, specially trained, genius
medical-nin
 like
Tsunade
,
Shizune
 or
Sakura Haruno
 can actually analyse and decipher the many different elements used in complex poisons and easily create a cure. They are usually a bottled liquid but can be anything from a flower or powder.

Types

There are different types of antidotes.

Antidotes are able to be formulated into a liquid form which can then be drunk by the person.

Members of the
Aburame clan
 are able to use their
kikaichū
 insects to enter the body of a poisoned victim whereupon they will remove and neutralise the poison in the person's body.

The poison of the
rinkaichū
 that are used by
Torune Aburame
 and
Shikuro Aburame
 also has an antidote which they carried with them.

During battle it is hard to treat a poisoned ally; for situations like these medical ninja can make the antidotes and store them into capsules or shots beforehand, to inject the injured victim with it when necessary.

Combating Poisons

Certain characters have encountered poisons throughout their careers as ninja. During the
Second Shinobi World War
, Tsunade was able to produce antidotes to every one of
Chiyo
's poisons, much to the latter's resentment.
 During the mission to rescue
Gaara
, Sakura demonstrated the skill to not only
extract
 and analyse
Sasori
's poison swiftly, but also produce an antidote to counter it; Sasori was confident that the poison was so complex that no one within Sunagakure should be able to counter it, and Sakura's success at doing so surprised him.

Apart from using antidotes to poisons, a ninja can also work to
build-up a tolerance to certain poisons
 by gradually exposing oneself to non-lethal amounts of those poisons.
Orochimaru
, in the effort to make
Sasuke Uchiha
 into the perfect vessel for his
Living Corpse Reincarnation
 technique, made it a point to make Sasuke immune to most poisons, such as the one that Shizune taught to Sakura in order to use on her
kunai
.

When Naruto was poisoned by The
Demon Brothers
 with their
poisoned gauntlets
, Kakashi told him that they could treat his wound by cutting him and letting the blood flush out the poison. This method of treating poisoned wounds has not been mentioned since and is presumably only viable in certain situations.

When
Chōji Akimichi
 was struck with a poisoned needle, he used the
Multi-Size Technique
 to increase his size to counter it. Due to the needle only possessing enough poison to kill a regular-sized person, it would be harmless to his enlarged form. He would remain in his large size until his body breaks down the poison.

Trivia

Kakashi's suggestion of letting Naruto bleed to flush out the poison is, in reality, an ineffective and outdated method that causes more harm than good, as it can actually spread the poison.

A very rare plant called Tomoshiri Grass (
トモシリソウ
,
Tomoshiri-sō
) is used to make the antidote for Sasori's poison.

References