This article is about the episode.  For other uses, see
Ao (disambiguation)
.

"
Ao
" (
青
,
Ao
) is episode 182 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Konohamaru
 is suspicious of the empty container, and copies data from it.
Mugino
 recognises one of his assailants as a subordinate of
Victor
's, and is attacked by an automaton. Mugino urges Konohamaru to run as more automatons appear. In
Konoha
,
Sasuke
 reveals he hasn't discovered any worthwhile information about
Kara
, much to everyone's surprise. They speculate their headquarters must be underground, and recall that Kara also has ties to the seal in
Boruto
's hand.
Katasuke
 arrives, further stoking Boruto's disdain for
scientific ninja tools
.
Naruto
 reaffirms their and Katasuke's worth as supports for the
Hokage
, and assigns
Team 7
 to escort Katasuke and the prosthetic to
another lab
.
 Boruto walks away, and Naruto requests
Sarada
 and
Mitsuki
 to keep an eye on Boruto's seal. Despite
Shikamaru
's concern, Sasuke is certain Boruto will come around about the mission. Sarada understands Boruto's feelings about scientific ninja tools, but wants to live up to the expectations of receiving a mission straight from the Hokage. Mitsuki explains that while he's always tied his choices to Boruto's, he'll be part of this mission even if Boruto isn't, and that this isn't any tool, it's Naruto's hand, which plays a part in protecting the village and everyone in it. He adds that with Kara making moves, he can't afford to let Sarada face the danger alone. Boruto is convinced, as Mitsuki thought he would.
Amado
 does maintenance on
Jigen
, who is still concerned about uncovering the traitor responsible for the crash. Amado is confused, so Jigen explains that while Victor did try to steal the vessel, someone else had the ship crash. His agreement to an unnecessary move was a bait to draw them into action. Amado asks how he knows it wasn't Victor. Jigen felt the vessel being moved through the
Kāma
 before the ship crash, something Victor couldn't have done. Ever since discovering the vessel, Jigen had been worried something would happen. Amado takes Jigen's words as an order to investigate the other Inners, which he confesses will be troublesome. Team 7 and Katasuke take the Thunder Train for their mission, where they find
Ao
. Katasuke introduces Ao as one of his patients, though neither can remember the last time they met. Sarada notes Boruto's diligence in carrying the prosthetic, but Boruto reaffirms his disdain from scientific ninja tools. Sarada points out the games and computers he enjoys are also fruit of scientific developments. Katasuke add that while scientific ninja tools are the launch pad, most of the technology developed ends up with civilian applications. Katasuke offers to adjust the wrist of Ao's prosthetic arm. Ao says that old habits from active service die hard. Boruto is surprised to learn Ao was a shinobi, and Mitsuki asks which village he is from. Ao answers he's from
Kiri
, and is likewise surprised to learn Boruto has visited it as part of a school trip, noting how much it has changed. Ao credits him being alive to scientific ninja tools, and when Boruto is still lukewarm about them, he takes the screwdriver Katasuke is using on him, and comes close to stabbing Boruto. He points out that they're not inherently good or bad, it all depends on how they're used. Team 7 and Katasuke depart, having arrived at their station. From the bench behind him,
Koji Kashin
 addresses Ao. As an Outer, he expected Victor to be the one to reach out to him, only to learn he's dead. Koji asks why he went to see Katasuke. Ao says he'd kill Katasuke if he remembered anything, Koji praising the skill with which Ao placed him under
genjutsu
 and extracted information about the scientific ninja tools from him. Koji tasks him with retrieving the vessel and killing anyone that interacted with it. Ao warns it's likely to get dramatic. Konohamaru helps Mugino, who tells him to abandon him. Konohamaru refuses, and says help should be on the way. Koji leaves him a box with intel and weapons, though he believes Ao might not even need them. Sarada notices Boruto's more positive disposition, which he credits to Ao, who he wants to meet again. Ao considers seeing combat again for the first time in sixteen years.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Katasuke Tōno
Taira Kikumoto
菊本 平
Kikumoto Taira
Ao
Tadahisa Saizen
西前 忠久
Saizen Tadahisa
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Shikamaru Nara
Shotaro Morikubo
森久保 祥太郎
Morikubo Shōtarō
Sasuke Uchiha
Noriaki Sugiyama
杉山 紀彰
Sugiyama Noriaki
Konohamaru Sarutobi
Hidenori Takahashi
高橋 英則
Takahashi Hidenori
Mugino
Jun Kasama
笠間 淳
Kasama Jun
Jigen
Kenjiro Tsuda
津田 健次郎
Tsuda Kenjirō
Amado
Akio Otsuka
大塚 明夫
Ōtsuka Akio
Koji Kashin
Yuichi Nakamura
中村 悠一
Nakamura Yūichi
Station announcers
Katsunori Okai
Hirokazu Sekido
Kazuya Saji
岡井 カツノリ
関戸 博一
佐治 和也
Okai Katsunori
Sekido Hirokazu
Saji Kazuya