"
Ask No Questions
" (
問答無用
,
Mondōmuyō
) is chapter 63 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 manga.

Summary

Ada
 blames
Code
 for rushing in without listening to her, so she wasn't able to warn him of
Boruto
's arrival. When Code asks, she's unsure how Boruto tracked
Kawaki
, attributing it either to being
Ōtsutsuki
 or to the
Kāma
. She's jealous of the bond they share. Boruto and Kawaki argue about the other being there. Kawaki tells Code to ignore Boruto and leave together. Code remains silent, and the two resume arguing. Boruto says that
Konoha
 will be able to track him there, but keeping
Naruto
 away and safe is what Kawaki wants. Ada reports to Code on the likelihood of Konoha finding them now that Boruto is there. Code asks what Kawaki thinks he can do to protect the
Hokage
. Kawaki wants to talk with whoever wants to meet with him. Ada perks up at him wanting to meet her. Kawaki wants to negotiate with that person, because whoever they are, they were able to influence Code to exclude Kawaki from his vengeance. Code questions on the unreasonable demands Kawaki might get, but he counters that he's used to people always wanting unreasonable things from him.
 Code was willing to drag him, but is glad for Kawaki's willingness to come with him, and manifests a
Claw Mark
 by Kawaki. Boruto tells them both not to ignore him, and tells Kawaki that Naruto wouldn't want this. Kawaki says he's doing it for Naruto. Boruto punches him, and while saying he gets it, he wants to protect Kawaki. Ada is excited by it. Code properly introduces himself to Boruto, and affirms that as
Momoshiki
's vessel, he reveres him. As such, it pains him that he must sacrifice Boruto to cultivate a
God Tree
. Boruto thinks that talking to Code is useless, and activates his Kāma.
Ino

reports
 to Naruto that despite extending their range to beyond the village, they can't find Kawaki. He recalls Boruto words, and tries finding him. He asks
Nishi
, who reports Boruto is nowhere nearby. Code blocks a kick from Boruto, who uses their proximity to try landing a
Rasengan
. Code slips away through a Claw Mark and counterattacks. He deflects
shuriken
 from Boruto, but one of them is a
transformed

shadow clone
, who attacks with
Lightning Release: Thunderclap Arrow
. Code avoids it again, and finds fighting with shinobi fun. However, he deems Boruto an amateur with the Kāma, activating his own, and going on the offensive, blocking Boruto's attacks and landing his own. Code explains there's more to the Kāma than making them faster and stronger, it also grants the user the accumulated battle experience of the Ōtsutsuki who branded it, if one knows how to draw from it. Code knows there's more to Boruto, and asks to see Momoshiki's power. Boruto avoids a stomp from Code, and begins drawing more power from the Kāma.