"
Asuma and Kurenai, Fire and Illusion
" (
炎と幻術
,
Asuma to Kurenai
) is chapter 6 of the
Konoha Shinden
 manga.

Summary

Mirai
 speaks to the participants of the
Quarrel Festival
 through her
Genjutsu: Ghost Fire
, urging them to stop fighting. She worries that the participants won't believe in the deity she's just invented, but the participants immediately recognise the Ghost Fire as "Cattog", the deity rumoured to mediate between the town's cat deity and dog deity. As Cattog, she begins making arguments in favour of peace, but is interrupted by
Guy
, who charges at the Ghost Fire and
attacks
 it, believing it to be a monster. Guy dispels the Ghost Fire as he passes through it and crashes into the wall that separates the cat and dog hot springs, destroying it and combining the two. Mirai panics over this potential act of vandalism, but the townspeople instead interpret this as the will of Cattog that they unify at long last.

Mirai is disappointed that her Ghost Fire failed to fulfil its purpose, but
Kakashi
 corrects her: amongst the joyful cat and dog worshippers are
Kiba
 and
Tamaki
, now reconciled. They thank her for bringing them back together, having recognised the Ghost Fire as Mirai's doing. As the two head off to enjoy the new combined hot spring, Mirai marvels at how opposites can be brought together. She and Kakashi then seek out Guy, who is dazed from his ordeal. The townspeople believe he is a messenger of Cattog, and vow to make a statue in his honour; Mirai and Kakashi take him away before that can happen. Because of how many people are attending the Quarrel Festival, none of the town's inns have rooms available, forcing Mirai, Kakashi, and Guy to camp out for the night. As Kakashi and Guy sleep, Mirai wonders about the
cult
 that used to be active in the
Land of Hot Water
.

Trivia

Ordinarily, the kanji for this chapter's title would be read as "
Honō to Genjutsu
". but the
furigana
 for the title is instead "
Asuma to Kurenai
" (
アスマと紅
), a reference to Mirai's parents.