This article is about information on the character. For information on the ability, see
Asura Path
. For other uses, see
Asura (disambiguation)
.

This man was a
shinobi

Jiraiya
 met during his journey to find his disciple.

Background

In the anime, the Asura Path was shown to be a wandering
puppeteer
 with insight to the world. His body was used by
Nagato
 years later as the
Asura Path
.

Appearance

the Asura Path when it was alive.
the Asura Path as one of Nagato's Six Paths.
the Asura Path's full appearance under the cloak.
1/3

The man was tall, bald with an unusual body shape, possessing a very thick neck, no ears and a large jaw. He also had part of his face obscured by a rice hat in the anime, possibly hiding a headband that had not been shown in the manga, as Jiraiya quickly discovered that he was a ninja. The Asura Path's unnamed puppet was made to look like a baby, and was capable of emitting infantile cries.

The Asura Path was the only body of the Six Paths of Pain to not have orange hair, simply because it had no hair at all. It had a vertical ring piercing on its nose, six spike studs all around its head, three studs on the top and bottom of each of its six arms, an enormous cylindrical stud on its chin, and two vertical studs on each of its upper cheeks. The body had three faces, each with a different expression, and two of which appeared from the sides of its head only when it removed its cloak in a fight: happy (its normal face), angry, and neutral. It also had a long, saw-like "tail" which stretched from his back over his head. As a mark of Nagato's control, the
Rinnegan
 appeared in its eyes.

Abilities

In the anime, when alive, he showed the ability to
control
 a
puppet
 with
threads made out of chakra
.

Legacy






The Asura Path destroyed.



As part of the Six Paths of Pain, the Asura Path is used for a number of different purposes over the years: all six Paths are used to overthrow and kill
Hanzō
; when Jiraiya infiltrates
Amegakure
 in order to find out more about
Akatsuki
, the Asura Path fights him and ultimately contributes to his death; in the anime, Asura Path assists in the capture of the
Six-Tails
; it participates during
Pain's Assault
, and like the other Paths it is defeated by
Naruto Uzumaki
.

In Other Media

Video Games

Asura Path (character) is a playable character in the following video games:

Game name
Japanese release
English release
Naruto Mobile
2016
2016
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Blazing
14 July 2016
24 August 2016
Naruto: Shinobi Collection
2014
Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Online
14 April 2013
20 July 2016