"
Attack
" (
襲
,
Osō
,
Viz:
 Assault) is chapter 639 of the original
Naruto
 manga.

Summary

As the others in the immediate area look on in shock,
Tobirama
 calls out to
Hiruzen
 and
Minato
 to jump. Recognising the protocol, they soon turn to see that
Obito
 has been plastered with
explosive tags
. Calling out to
Hashirama
 who binds Obito with his
Wood Release
, Tobirama sets off the explosions leading
Minato
 to comment on Tobirama's swift action. Noting that as the creator of the
Summoning: Impure World Reincarnation
 technique, he also created the would-be suicidal
fighting style
 that surrounded the use of the technique, Tobirama launches his
Mutually Multiplying Explosive Tags
 technique causing a continuous explosion around Obito. When the smoke cleared, however, it is revealed that Obito is unharmed due to the resilient substance surrounding him. Theorising what exactly the substance was, Hiruzen attacks Obito with the
Shuriken Shadow Clone Technique
 summoning a giant shuriken to do so. However, the substance proves once again too versatile for these attacks and eradicates these weapons.
 This leads Hiruzen to link it to
Ōnoki
's
Dust Release
 and surmises that the substance was made from at least four
nature transformations
. As
Naruto
 worries about protecting the
Hokage
,
Sasuke
 notes that they were using their immortal bodies to gain a sense of Obito's abilities so they could find a way to defeat him which led Sasuke to tell Naruto to stop worrying about them. Minato, while noting Sasuke's intelligence, notes that their bodies took a while to reconstruct so he would have to create an opening for them. Elsewhere, the real Hashirama decides to head to the fore as well, but is stopped by
Madara
 who stated he was done waiting around for his
Senju
 rival. Taking his chance when it appeared that Obito had still not gotten used to being the beast's
jinchūriki
, Minato
teleports
 his clone to his side and prepares to use the
Spiralling Flash Super Round Dance Howl Style Three
 technique with the clone. However, Obito makes a play to attack Naruto but is blocked by Sasuke's
Susanoo
. Even with his torso halfway across the battlefield, Obito is able to take Minato by surprise and send him reeling. As Sasuke attempts to attack Obito, however, he takes both him and Naruto by surprise, breaking through Susanoo's defence and attacking the two. As Minato prepares to teleport again, he anxiously hopes he makes it in time.

Trivia

In this chapter, Ōnoki is mistakenly shown wearing the Hokage's hat instead of the Tsuchikage's. This was later corrected in the tankōbon version.