"
Baptism by Fire
" (
洗礼
,
Senrei
) is chapter 74 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 manga.

Summary

Ada
,
Daemon
, and
Amado
 arrive at
Konoha
. They're greeted by
Sai
 and
Shikamaru
, Sai and other civilians becoming attracted to Ada. She informs Shikamaru she's aware of and accepts his cohabitation plan. Shikamaru notices Daemon. Sai offers to take her to her lodgings, but she refuses, saying she doesn't need a guide, and takes off flying, already knowing the destination, Daemon ridding piggyback, saying she doesn't like standing out. Shikamaru finds that flying makes her stand out. Amado tells him that flying is common among the
Ōtsutsuki
, and they should expect
Boruto
 and
Kawaki
 to start flying soon. Shikamaru tells him it's time to say everything he knows. At the house they'll live in, Boruto admires it,
Konohamaru
 admitting they had to strong-arm the future owner because of the mission. Kawaki is bothered by Boruto's cheeriness, Boruto retorting their mission is to live there. Konohamaru stresses the importance of getting along with Ada. Kawaki recalls perceiving
Momoshiki
 by Boruto.
Sarada
 and
Mitsuki
 watch the house from theirs, her finding it odd to do so in plain sight. Mitsuki assures her they just have to apply a little pressure, but she remains worried.
Shikadai
,
Inojin
, and
Chōchō
 arrive, curious about their mission. Inojin is interested in the beautiful woman, who Chōchō considers her rival over Kawaki. Mitsuki alerts Sarada of Ada's arrival, surprising her with her flight. Inojin, Chōchō, and Mitsuki are attracted to her.
 Shikadai couldn't see her face clearly. Konohamaru informs the boys he'll return to his post, and reminds them of the support from the
Sensor Unit
 and their
communications link
. Sarada contacts Konohamaru, but he's surprised by Ada's arrival. Chōchō, Inojin, and Mitsuki want to get closer to Ada. Sarada wonders if she and Shikadai weren't affected by Ada's ability over not seeing her well or individual variation.
Moegi
 arrives, having told
Team 10
 not to go there, and plans their punishment. She asks Sarada about Konohamaru, concerned for him. Ada comments on Moegi's concern for him, causing Konohamaru to faint. Boruto checks on him, and asks Ada to come out so they can talk. Daemon attacks, introducing himself as Ada's little brother, surprising them as they didn't know about him. Daemon antagonises them, and goads Kawaki into attacking him, which Daemon reflects. Kawaki uses
Sukunahikona
, but Daemon reacts in time to grab the chakra rods, avoiding being stabbed. Daemon knocks both of them out. When Boruto wakes up, Ada is holding Kawaki unconscious on her lap, and she apologises for the harsh greeting. Daemon says they had to show from the start that defying them wouldn't end well. Kawaki wakes up, and Ada blushes when he looks at her. Daemon asks if he agrees that Ada's lap is nice and soft. Shikamaru contacts Boruto through the intercom, asking if they've met Ada and Daemon. Boruto says Daemon have them a baptism by fire, and Shikamaru apologises, having wished to make proper introductions, but Ada took off flying. Shikamaru and
Naruto
 are with Amado, and they want him to tell them everything. Boruto thinks it'll be quite a mission.