Jiraiya
 using a barrier ninjutsu.



Barrier ninjutsu
 (
結界忍術
,
Kekkai Ninjutsu
,
literally meaning:
 Barrier Ninja Techniques)
 are
techniques
 that impose an effect upon a defined space.
 The term itself is rarely used in the series and in fact never clearly defined, but several different jutsu are said to create or utilise
barriers
 (
結界
,
Kekkai
), all of which serve one of a few broad purposes:

Most commonly, barriers are used to limit passage through or access to an area. This can be done to prevent unwanted intrusion, as with
Uchiha Flame Formation
, which creates a barrier of
flames
 around an area that burns anyone attempting to enter. Alternatively, such barriers can limit escape, as with
String Light Formation
, which restricts the movements of those within it. These barriers do not need to be active at all times:
Barrier Talisman: Armoured Eye
 only activates when the eye it protects is under threat. These barriers do not even need to affect all individuals:
Sealed Iron Wall
 only blocks entry to those who lack the
Gift of the Hermit Group
; the barrier protecting the
Naka Shrine
 can be lifted by performing the correct
hand seals
.
 Barriers can be overcome if whatever creates the barrier is neutralized, like removing the
sealing
 talismans that produce the
Five-Seal Barrier
 or attacking those who maintain the
Four Violet Flames Formation
. Barriers can also be broken through sheer brute force:
Naruto Uzumaki
 and
Killer B
 escape thirty-six layers of a
Self-Repairing Barrier
 by using a
Tailed Beast Ball
.
Space–time ninjutsu
 can be used to circumvent all barriers such as these.

Barriers can be used in service to space–time ninjutsu. At times this is done for transportation:
Flying Thunder God: Guiding Thunder
 teleports anything that contacts its barrier to a designated location; the long-range version of
Kamui
 creates a "barrier space", warping anything within that space to
Kamui's dimension
. Alternatively, barriers can isolate one dimension from another, as is done with certain types of
toads
:
diving toads
 conceal those stored within its stomach, meaning that only the toad's presence is at risk of detection;
gourd toads
 trap those it pulls into its stomach, cutting them off from allies and subjecting them to the stomach acid and other perils found there.

Rather than impede or aid traversal, barriers can facilitate
sensory ninjutsu
 within the affected area.
Barrier: Canopy Method Formation
 forms a barrier around the user, helping them detect anything moving within their vicinity. A
Sensing Barrier
 alerts its users to unauthorized entry to an area, though actually tracking intruders after they enter relies on
another technique
.

There are a few barriers that don't fit neatly into any of the above categories.
Barrier Method Formation
 serves as a sort of booby trap, triggering
explosive tags
 when anyone enters its perimeter.
Four Black Fogs Formation
 places those within it into a sort of stasis, protecting them from outside forces, notably death.
Earth Release Barrier
 traps the user's opponents in a prison, but such physical confines are not ordinarily called a "barrier" elsewhere in the series; the constant
absorption
 of its captives'
chakra
 is perhaps the actual reason it is called a "barrier".

Trivia

The term
kekkai
 (
結界
,
literally meaning:
 fixed boundary) is of Buddhist origin, originally referring to cordoning off/restricting access to areas that pertain to religious practices (e.g., sacred places within which monks are to be trained), or wooden fences/partitions physically separating a temple's inner and outer sanctums. In contemporary Japanese fantasy fiction, especially manga and anime, the term usually refers to protective, magically or spiritually erected "barriers" or
forcefields
.

See Also

List of barrier ninjutsu

Reference