"
Barrier of Seven
" (
七の壁
,
Nana no Kabe
) is episode 279 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Boruto
 is surprised when
Batta
 accuses
Kiseru
 of working for
Ōga
. She explains that her home village is near Kiseru's alleged home, and that his claim of watching sunsets on hot springs is impossible because they all face east, allowing only sunrises. His claim made her suspicious, so she searched him and found the communication device. In the waiting room,
Yatsume
, Kiseru, and
Shamo
 note how Boruto and Batta are taking their time coming back, and wonder if they're plotting. Batta believes that Kiseru has been receiving instructions to keep the experiments running smoothly, and points out they already found an underling before. Boruto remains sceptical, as Kiseru was the first to help him try breaking through the floor. Batta says she'll remain on guard.
Kawaki
 is surprised
Konoha
 has that much information on an Outer, but
Sarada
 points out their information is likely incomplete, and that they're important clues about
Code
. They rush to meet up with
Mitsuki
. When Batta and Boruto return, Ōga complains about them being late, the next experiment has already been picked, "Calculation". Everyone had to pick an envelope, Shamo picking theirs for them.
 Ōga sends them to the next experiment, everyone scattered, with cards having numbers 1 to 8, and they have to steal each others' cards until they add up at least to 7, the ones who already have enough points being lucky, but also more likely to be targeted. They have a two hour limit to gather points and reach a gate indicated by a flare. Other flares will be sent to indicate one hour, and ten minutes remaining. Boruto has 6,
Rokuro
 has 1. Batta finds
Fugō
, who has 2, revealing she has 3. She wants to target Shamo, perceiving him as the weakest, who celebrates having 8. He shows it to Boruto, who admonishes him for his carelessness. Kiseru has 7, and decides to contact someone, but realises his communication device is gone, and that Batta took it when she bumped on him. Fugō finds it strange Batta is still protecting him, despite her hate for the wealthy. She claims not to let personal feelings interfere with her mission. When he trips, she picks up his briefcase to return it to him, and finds it suspiciously light. Noting she never actually saw the money, the two fight over it, its contents falling out. The canteen breaks, something gaseous escaping it. She demands an explanation. Fugō reveals his company is being threatened by an organisation, who have taken his wive and child hostage for ransom. However, his company is on the verge of bankruptcy, and he intended to threaten the organisation with the chemical on the canteen. She finds him just another liar, and takes his card, while he begs for her help. She tells him to pay him, and someone kills him with a kunai to the back. She is surprised by the assailant, who also attacks her. Yatsume has 4, and meets up with
Namua
, who has done the math, determining five people can have 7 or more points, meaning three people will fail. He offers her his 5 card, but she doesn't want it. Namua doesn't want to take things anymore, still hearing the voices of those he killed, and has trouble sleeping. Boruto and Shamo join up with them, and they check to see how many would pass with their cards. Shamo suggests turning Boruto's 6 into a 9, but he doesn't think it would work. They decide to look for the others, and find Batta and Fugō dead on the ground, their cards and the device she took for Kiseru stolen. Namua thinks either Rokuro or Kiseru did it, while Boruto thinks it might be a trap to sow discord among them. Shamo wishes he could give them one of his points, giving Boruto the idea of exchanging his 6 card for the 1, 2, and 3, so more people could get 7 points. The one hour flare goes up. Rokuro finds them, revealing he has cards 1, 2, and 3. Boruto offers to exchange his 6 for 2 and 3, but Rokuro attacks him with his bladed arms, figuring that if only one person is left, Ōga will reach the goal of his experiment early, going beyond his expectations. He takes Shamo hostage, who offers him his 8. Boruto lands a
Vanishing Rasengan
, allowing Shamo to escape and Namua to land a blow. Sarada and Kawaki finds Mitsuki trapped by sealing tags, with more around to trap them if they interfere. Sarada wants to wait for backup, but Kawaki goes ahead and triggers the trap, waiting for it envelop him so he can burn through it by setting himself on fire, also freeing Mitsuki. He reveals he was attacked by a group of skilled shinobi. Sarada informs him there might be Outer involvement. Kawaki wants to go straight to the source, Sarada in agreement. Shamo realises that if they get Rokuro's cards, them four can make through the experiment. Rokuro resists Boruto's
Lightning Release
 and infects Namua with his parasite, making him fight against the group. He tries resisting Rokuro's control, who wishes Namua to revert to who he was before. Yatsume cries, touched by everyone's desire to survive. Seeing the kindness of the priest's eyes in Boruto, Namua manages to stop, and takes Rokuro's attack aimed at Boruto, who instead lands his
Rasengan
 on him, defeating Rokuro and taking his cards. Rokuro has no regrets, as if he had been taken back to his village, he would have served for life at best, and concedes that Boruto's desire to survive was greater than his own. Boruto lets him have the 6 and 1 cards, and yells in defiance of Ōga's goal. Rokuro reveals that while he took Batta and Fugō's cards, they were already dead when he found them, leaving one possible culprit. Rokuro goes through the gate, and Boruto wants the others to go ahead, noting that the 7 card hasn't been used, so he wants to wait for Kiseru, telling the others of Batta's suspicion. Yatsume and Shamo help Namua through the gate. Kiseru arrives at the gate, finding Boruto waiting.

Trivia

This episode's title on Crunchyroll differs from the one showed in the episode's subtitles.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Shamo
Aoi Inase
いなせ あおい
Inase Aoi
Yatsume
Sara Matsumoto
松本 沙羅
Matsumoto Sara
Kiseru
Katsunori Okai
岡井 カツノリ
Okai Katsunori
Namua
Shinya Hamazoe
浜添 伸也
Hamazoe Shin'ya
Batta
Chihiro Ikki
一木 千洋
Ikki Chihiro
Fugō
Taira Kikumoto
菊本 平
Kikumoto Taira
Rokuro
Atsushi Abe
阿部 敦
Abe Atsushi
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Kawaki
Yuma Uchida
内田 雄馬
Uchida Yūma
Ōga
Kappei Yamaguchi
山口 勝平
Yamaguchi Kappei