Baton Road
 (
バトンロード
,
Baton Rōdo
), performed by
KANA-BOON
, is the first opening of
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime. The opening ran from episode
1
 till episode
26
. It was replaced by
OVER
 in
episode 27
.

Video



Lyrics

Rōmaji

Mirai wo ima ni oinuite, ashiato de egaita chijou e

Sono me ni, yadose hikari to hi

Kasaneta yume no kage, mayoigao utsuru mado

Uzoumuzō tobira no mukou no gunjou

Tsukameba yume no kage, kotae wa kaze no naka

Kitto mada mienai mono

Kawaita ashiato mo, tadoreba osanaki hi

Mabataki mo wasurete

Mirai wo kimi to oinuite, mitai no sa kono me de shinshou wo

Baton rōdo, furikaeru to, kimi dake no chijou e

Ima wa namida no tare datte, sakasereba idai na denshouka

Sono me ni, yadose hikari to hi

Yadose kimi no mirai

Yadose itsumademo

Kanji

未来をいまに追い抜いて　足跡で描いた地上絵

その目に宿せ 光と火

重ねた夢の影 迷い顔 映る窓

有象無象　扉の向こうの群青

掴めば夢の影　答えは風の中

きっとまだ見えないもの

渇いた足跡も　辿れば幼き日

瞬きも忘れて

未来を君と追い抜いて　見たいのさ　この目で新章を

バトンロード　振り返ると　君だけの地上絵

いまは涙の種だって　咲かせれば偉大な伝承花

その目に宿せ　光と火　

宿せ　君の未来

宿せ　いつまでも

English

A drawing forms on the ground, carved by our footsteps as they overtake the future

Keep the light and fire in your eyes

Repeated shadows of dreams; windows reflect doubting expressions

A crowd; ultramarine on the other side of the door

To understand the shadow of a dream, the answer lies in the wind

It's surely something that cannot yet be seen.

Our footprints will thirst again if we follow the path of our childhood days

Forget even blinking!

If you overtake the future, I want to see the new chapter with these eyes

When I look back at Baton Road, the drawing on the ground was of you

These are the kind of tears that may bloom into magnificent flowers to hand down

Keep the light and fire in your eyes

Keep your future

Keep them forever

Rōmaji (Full Version)

mirai o ima ni oinuite ashiato de egaita chijoue

sono me ni yadose hikari to hi

kasaneta yume no kage mayoigao utsuru mado

uzoumuzou tobira no mukou no gunjou

tsukameba yume no kage kotae wa kaze no naka

kitto mada mienai mono

kawaita ashiato mo tadoreba osanaki hi

mabataki mo wasurete

kanata o ima ni oinuite sorairo no hibi wa manshin soui

baton roodo fuan to kouro tsumazuki mo suru kedo

ima wa namida no tane datte sakasereba idai na denshouka

sono me ni yadose kimi no mirai

dareka o netamu koto dareka o urayamu koto kitto sakete wa toorenai kedo

risou shisou kimi dake no kidou ni sou mono dake wa tebanasanaide yo

kudaketa ano yoru mo kako da to waraitobasu

sonna hi ga kuru kara

kitai o ima ni oikoshite sabiiro no hi demo isshinfuran ni

baton roodo uten darou to kamai ya shinai no sa

donna buzama na tane datte sakasereba idai na denshouka

sono ne ni yadose kimi no chikai

kouya ni hikareta senro kimi wa sugisaru hitobito no se nagamu

ashiato tsuketsudzukeru hibi o nagekanaide ima o hokotte

yamima o nukedasu tame no kotae ga hoshii nara

yamikumo demo sono kokoro kagaribi o moyashite

kanata o ima ni oinuite dare yori mo tsukandeitai yo

baton roodo dare ga nanto iou to nando datte ie

mirai o kimi to oinuite mitai no sa kono me de shinshou o

baton roodo furikaeru to kimi dake no chijoue

ima wa namida no tane datte sakasereba idai na denshouka

sono me ni yadose hikari to hi yadose kimi no mirai

yadose itsumademo

English (Full Version)

A drawing forms upon the earth, carved by our footsteps as they overtake the future.

Keep them in your eyes: the light, and the fire!

Overlapping shadows of dreams. Windows reflecting lost expressions.

The masses gather. Ultramarine shines from beyond the door.

But once grasped, it’s the shadow of a dream. The answer lies in the wind.

It’s surely something we’re still unable to see.

Our thirsty footprints will travel the path of our young days,

And we’ll forget to even blink!

Overtaking the distance, our sky-blue days are covered in wounds

Faced with uneasiness and beaten paths on this Baton Road, we’ll sometimes trip along the way.

But even the seeds planted by our tears will bloom into magnificent flowers to hand down!

Keep growing it with those seed: your future!

Being jealous of someone, or envying what someone has, surely can’t be avoided as we proceed…

Just be sure to never let go of the people who follow your path, standing by your thoughts and ideals.

Even that night, when you felt it would all fall apart,

Will someday be a thing of the past that you can laugh away.

Outstripping our expectations, we’ll give it our all on even rust-coloured days.

Going down this Baton Road, we won’t care if it rains or shines.

No matter how misshapen the seeds are, they’ll bloom into magnificent flowers to hand down!

Keep it in your eyes: The oath you took.

A railway spans this wasteland. You watch from behind as others depart onward.

But don’t lament these days you’ve spent making footprints. Have pride in where you are now!

If you want an answer that will help you emerge from the darkness,

Light a beacon in your heart, even if it’s improvised.

Overtaking the distance, my desire to take hold is stronger than anyone else’s—

Going down this Baton Road, I don’t care what anyone else might say!

Overtaking the future along with you, I want to see our new chapter with my own eyes!

When I look back down this Baton Road, I see a drawing upon the earth that belongs to you alone.

Even the seeds planted by our tears will bloom into magnificent flowers to hand down!

Keep them in your eyes: the light, and the fire! Keep growing your future!

Keep them, forever and ever!

Characters

The characters in order of appearance:

Boruto Uzumaki

Himawari Uzumaki

Hinata Hyūga

Naruto Uzumaki

Denki Kaminarimon

Iwabee Yuino

Sumire Kakei

Sarada Uchiha

Chōchō Akimichi

Inojin Yamanaka

Shikadai Nara

Mitsuki

Namida Suzumeno

Wasabi Izuno

Metal Lee

Shikamaru Nara

Sai

Konohamaru Sarutobi

Shino Aburame

Chōji Akimichi

Sakura Haruno

Kakashi Hatake

Rock Lee

Trivia

This opening was slightly updated at some point to include improved animation. The most notable difference is Boruto, Sarada, and Mitsuki leaning forward while running after the shot of the adult characters.
[
citation needed
]

When Sarada, Mitsuki and Boruto each launch their own attack, only the first four
Hokage
 are shown in the
Hokage Rock
, and the head of
Tsunade
,
Kakashi Hatake
 and
Naruto Uzumaki
 are shown farther away from the rocks.

See Also

Silhouette

Diver (ending)

Spiral

Kirarirari