This article is about the chapter. For the volume, see
Because of Love (volume)
.

"
Because of Love
" (
愛ゆえに
,
Ai Yueni
) is chapter 20 of the
Boruto: Two Blue Vortex
 manga.

Summary

Konohamaru
's neck is being crushed within
Matsuri
's grasp. Thinking back to
Shikamaru
's words, Konohamaru tried to reach out to Matsuri, saying if he is devoured by her, he will die. Matsuri is conflicted by her feelings, her infatuation with Konohamaru and her instinct to devour him. She states that these conflicting feelings result in feeling compelled to devour him, using her
Wood Release
 to further injure Konohamaru.

Elsewhere,
Araya
,
Yodo
,
Mitsuki
, and
Sarada
 are having trouble fighting
Ryū
. With Araya's
blade
 gone, Ryū has no more worries about his
Iron Sand
 being countered, using it to overwhelm Mitsuki and Araya. As Mitsuki loses his
Sage Mode
, he and Araya are held captive by Ryū as Araya yells for Yodo and Sarada to save themselves. Ryū suggests the group to share any intel they have on
Boruto
, and he will agree to let them go. Mitsuki tells the others not to fall for it as Ryū may simply kill them anyway. Yodo and Sarada argue about revealing Boruto's location, and Sarada proclaims that she will not sell out a friend. Yodo becomes aware that Boruto is the cause of Sarada's conflicting behavior, thinking that he is the type of guy, despite being an enemy, that makes you want to always have his back no matter what. Yodo reveals that they have no intel on Boruto, but she offers herself instead as her detection abilities can prove useful in finding him, in exchange for the rest of them to be spared.

Konohamaru is overwhelmed by Matsuri, as a tear begins to drop from her face, much to her confusion. Matsuri wonders what is happening, and Konohamaru explains that she is feeling sad and deep inside, she does not want to kill him. At the
Human God Trees
 base,
Hidari
 notices a tear falling from
Jura
's eye. Konohamaru asks Matsuri to join hands, claiming that this is how special relationships start. Matsuri begins to comply and join hands, then Konohamaru, thinking back to Shikamaru's strategy, disintegrates Matsuri's arms and a section of her body with
Big Ball Spiralling Serial Spheres
. Jura explains that due to love, Matsuri hesitated in devouring Konohamaru, giving him the opportunity to deliver a painful counterattack. However, due to that same feeling of love, Konohamaru momentarily fell victim to his doubt, allowing victory to slip from his grasp as Matsuri attacks him.

Yodo is stabbed through her torso by an Iron Sand spear attack from Ryū, as Sarada, Mitsuki and Araya watch. Sarada runs to Yodo's side as Araya, still ensnared by the Iron Sand, curses Ryū. Sarada checks on Yodo, who states that she is aware she is finished. Sarada is ensnared by the Iron Sand as Ryū begins to claim victory. Yodo tells Sarada that she is aware of Sarada's conflicting feelings, revealing that she is hiding a secret power. As Ryū forces Sarada to pull out a
Kunai
 to finish off Yodo, Yodo informs Sarada that it is fine for her to stop holding back for not just the greater good, but to protect that special person in her life.

As Ryū prepares to end this, he is alerted by his Iron Sand peeling away from his body, Mitsuki's, Araya's, and Sarada's. He spots a
black hole
 in the sky, which is sucking in the Iron Sand. Mitsuki lays eyes on Sarada, discovering this is her doing, as Sarada has activated her
Mangekyō Sharingan
.