"
Bet Your Life On It
" (
命を賭して
,
Inochi wo Toshite
) is chapter 27 of the
Boruto: Two Blue Vortex
 manga.

Summary

Sarada Uchiha
 and
Sumire
 are held captive by
Daemon
, but he suddenly releases his grip on their necks. When Daemon states that he has the ability to kill them before they can even react, as he just demonstrated, Sarada questions why he did not do so.
Ada
 ponders why Sarada and Sumire would be immune to
Omnipotence
. It is not due to them falling in love with
Boruto Uzumaki
, an
Ōtsutsuki
, as there are other girls in the village who have crushes on Boruto and
Kawaki
. Ada figures out that it is due to her unconsciously providing an exception for the two of them. Ada reminds the two of a past conversation where Ada openly spoke about wanting to be friends, and one of her deepest desires is to have normal, genuine relationships with others. Ada admits that even if Sarada and Sumire did display an intention to kill her, she would accept it as long as they are the ones to. Moved by Ada's words, Sarada grabs Sumire's hand and the two rush to give Ada a hug. When Ada questions this, Sarada states that she is showing the proof of her resolve and a symbol of their genuine friendship. Ada thanks the two of them while Daemon grins.

Boruto Uzumaki
,
Inojin Yamanaka
, and
Shikamaru Nara
 (via Inojin's
Mind Body Transmission Technique
) listen in as
Koji Kashin
 goes on to explain
Mamushi
's ability:
Division
. Mamushi is able to split into seemingly endless copies of himself. When Boruto compares it to the
Shadow Clone Technique
, Koji corrects him by explaining that each copy serves as the "real" Mamushi, and there is no drop in power or physical strength as he multiplies. However, there is a significant drop in his intelligence each time he copies himself. Koji agrees with
Shikamaru Nara
 that the ideal method to counter this ability would be to allow Mamushi to multiply to the point he becomes a complete fool, and deal with all of his copies at once. Koji reveals another very important detail: both of Mamushi's eyes must be destroyed to prevent further copying. Due to the nature of this ability, it would be dangerous to leave a few copies around, as Mamushi's intelligence will increase as his head count decreases, but if he is allowed to make too many copies, there would be a massive disadvantage in numbers. Koji states that an ideal number of copies to deal with would be about 20 or 30. Shikamaru is concerned about Mamushi leaving a copy behind at their base as a contingency plan, but Koji explains that Mamushi and his copies have the instinctual desire to stay flocked together, so a copy venturing too far from the pack will not be a concern.

Inojin questions why they need to engage Mamushi inside
Konohagakure
, opting to instead hunt him down before he can invade the village. Koji explains that it will prevent the interference of
Jura
. Shikamaru notes that Jura holds the village in high regard, as there are frequent reports of his visits to the bookstore and the sweets shop. Despite targeting Boruto and
Himawari Uzumaki
, Jura refuses to do battle in the village to prevent unnecessary destruction, and the action of doing so especially by Jura's peers would incur his wrath. Even if Mamushi becomes a fool due to constantly dividing, the instinct to avoid Jura's anger and to devour Ada would remain intact, thus it is confirmed that the best method to engage Mamushi would be inside Konoha's borders.

Koji also reveals the main reason he invited Inojin: he will have him learn a new jutsu, which is stated to be a superior version of the Mind Body Transmission Technique, and this jutsu would prove to be key in defeating Mamushi. As Mamushi will arrive in Konoha in about a week, possibly even sooner, Inojin is given a time limit of 2 days to perfect this new jutsu. Noting Inojin's concerns, Koji explains that this is a jutsu he would have eventually developed himself, in order to avenge Himawari (Koji insinuates that there is a future where Himawari is killed by Jura, and Inojin develops this jutsu to enact vengeance). Now feeling determined, Inojin declares that he will not need 2 days; he will master it in 1 day.

Back at
Amado Sanzu
's lab, Amado and Kawaki are reviewing the footage of Kawaki's earlier battle with Jura. Amado observes the tree branches Jura used, deducing that it is the
God Tree
 itself, which is also what Jura's own body is composed of. Due to the God Tree being able to heal any injury inflicted on Jura, and its ability to act as an offensive weapon and impenetrable shield, Amado comes to the conclusion that Jura may essentially be immortal. Kawaki disagrees, claiming Jura is beatable, but not as Kawaki is currently. Aware of what Kawaki is suggesting, Amado tries to argue against it, but Kawaki grabs him by the throat, reminding him of their agreement about Amado's
daughter
. Amado claims that if Kawaki is instilled with any more power than he has now, his body may be unable to handle it and he will self-destruct. Kawaki is undeterred, opting to take this chance to deal with his enemies, and Amado is forced to take this gamble if he wants his daughter to be restored.

Meanwhile,
Konohamaru Sarutobi
 is being interrogated by
Kobu
, with
Sai
 listening in. Konohamaru tries to argue that he is not the mole Kobu is searching for, however he admits that while he detested Boruto at first, he has with time come to realize that there are contradictions towards the idea of him being a traitor. Kobu thinks to himself that Konohamaru does not have the right character to be a proper mole, and he begins to suspect others. Suddenly, Konohamaru is contacted telepathically by Shikamaru, revealing that he is the one who allowed Boruto to escape. Aware that it is only a matter of time before his actions are exposed, Shikamaru asks Konohamaru for his help as he continues to work with Koji, Boruto, and now Inojin from the shadows. Sai stares at Konohamaru, seemingly noting Konohamaru's sudden change in expression.

At the safehouse, Sumire leaves to head back to the lab, jokingly wishing Sarada good luck as Ada prevents Sarada from also leaving. As she runs through the door, Boruto appears waiting for her. Boruto shows Sumire his sword, demonstrating its ability to maintain its physical condition by constantly enveloping it with chakra. However, due to a momentarily loss in focus, it suffered a chip in his battle against Jura, and Boruto asks Sumire if she can repair it within a week. Boruto gives Sumire a scroll, which contains completed research that Sumire is currently in the process of developing, much to her surprise. Sumire states that if she uses this technology, it may transform Boruto's blade into something entirely different, asking if he is okay with this. Boruto accepts this, stating that as long as it makes his weapon stronger, even
his master
 wouldn't oppose. Sumire agrees with Boruto's request, also telling him that he should not refer to her by "Class Rep" anymore, but by her actual name.

Several days later, Mamushi has arrived to Konohagakure, with a few copies already made. Mamushi's copies discuss with themselves to keep their chakra signature erased so the
Sensory Division
 cannot detect them, and they begin their search for Ada.