"
Beyond the Limits!
" (
限界の先へ…!!
,
Genkai no Saki e…!!
) is episode 175 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Boruto
 attacks
Deepa
 with a barrage of clones, which Deepa easily
pelts with carbon
.
Sarada
 attacks from above, blocking the cubes on her way, but Deepa deflects her
kunai
 with a
ring of carbon cubes
. Boruto and Sarada note the versatility of Deepa's jutsu. Deepa proclaims it's time to hunt. Sarada's
explosive tag
 kunai and Boruto's
electrified shuriken
 have no effect on Deepa. Boruto asks Sarada to buy him time to prepare his
new Rasengan
 to push through Deepa's defence. Deepa reiterates his wish to know the flavour of the chakra fruit.
Konohamaru
 fights
Victor
, who rationalises his goal as not wasting the sacrifice his employees made. He compares regular humans as nourishment and steppingstones for superior humans to the relationship between smaller and great nations. Konohamaru attacks him with
Fire Release
, which Victor blocks with
Water Release
. Sarada's
Fire Release
 has no effect on Deepa, who sends a ring at Boruto, preventing him from building up his Rasengan. Sarada comments on the limited capabilities of a two-person team. Deepa boasts of his jutsu. Victor attacks with
Earth Release
 and
Fire Release
, impressing Konohamaru, who only ever saw
his grandfather
 using all changes in chakra nature.
 Victor prepares to strike him with
Lightning Release
, but is blocked by
Orochimaru
's
snakes
. Orochimaru makes it clear he's there not to save Konohamaru, but to reclaim his stolen
Hashirama
 cells. Orochimaru blocks Victor's
Fire Release
 with a summoned snake, which strikes and decapitates Victor. Victor
regenerates
 his head, and counterattacks with
Lightning Release
, severing Orochimaru's arm, who also
regenerates
 it. Orochimaru attacks with
Wind Release
, severing both of Victor's arms, who also regenerate, and breaking his peg leg. Orochimaru considers Victor's body interesting, but his regeneration to be imperfect, and surmises Victor wants to eat the chakra fruit to regain his lost body parts. Victor steadies himself with his
extra arms
. Deepa continues to overpower Sarada and Boruto. He almost lands a solid hit on Boruto, who is rescued at the last moment by
Mitsuki
, who joins the fight. Deepa shrugs off Mitsuki's
Wind Release
, blocks Boruto's advance, and breaks Sarada's kunai when she gets close. Deepa attacks them with
carbon whips
. Sarada is incredulous Deepa has yet to use his full strength. Deepa aims a big cube at Boruto, which Sarada blocks. Stressing her goal to become
Hokage
, Sarada's
Sharingan
 gain a second tomoe. Deepa is angry at
Team 7
's lack of hopelessness.
Mia
 arrives at the company and witnesses Victor's true form. The
God Tree
 bud begins to open, so Victor approaches it, ignoring Mia's and Konohamaru's censure. The flower sends tendrils out to pull Victor in, and Orochimaru explains this is just a copy, and that mere humans can't handle the fruit. Deepa blocks Mitsuki's
Lightning Release
, dodges Sarada's
taijutsu
, and blocks Mitsuki's
Wind Release
 before striking through him, who is actually a
snake clone
. Deepa grabs the real Mitsuki, and kicks him aside before dodging and blocking Sarada's taijutsu. Sarada's punch manages to chink Deepa's armour before he punches her aside. Boruto manages to attack with his Compression Rasengan. More cracks appear in Deepa's armour, who decides to fully cover himself in a
black and white armour
, and kicks Boruto aside. Orochimaru and his clones burn Victor's imitation God Tree with a
barrier
, and tells Konohamaru to leave. Boruto refuses to back down, Deepa grows angry when he sees bits of the burned God Tree falling down, and decides to kill the genin. Boruto prepares to attack again, and Sarada warns him about his arm. Deepa turns his gauntlet into diamond. Deepa and Boruto clash, Deepa's armour growing more cracks. Mitsuki supports Boruto,
wrapping his arm
 around Boruto's and adding his
senjutsu
 chakra to the attack. Sarada also adds her chakra to it. Together, they overpower Deepa, breaking his armour and body. Deepa considers how close he got to taste the world through the God Tree's fruit. He gets buried by falling debris. They leave the building with Konohamaru. Mitsuki dismisses Boruto's concern for his injuries, saying he'll heal fast. Mia is willing to testify on their behalf about the incident. Orochimaru leaves, telling Konohamaru he already notified
Naruto
. Konohamaru is glad Mitsuki was able to recover. Team 7 is glad to be together again.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Konohamaru Sarutobi
Hidenori Takahashi
高橋 英則
Takahashi Hidenori
Mia
Juri Nagatsuma
長妻 樹里
Nagatsuma Juri
Orochimaru
Kujira
くじら
Kujira
Deepa
Tetsuya Kakihara
柿原 徹也
Kakihara Tetsuya
Victor
Cho
チョー
Chō