Biwako Sarutobi
 (
猿飛ビワコ
,
Sarutobi Biwako
) was a
medical-nin
 from
Konohagakure
's
Sarutobi clan
, and the wife of the Third
Hokage
,
Hiruzen Sarutobi
.

Background

In the anime, it was shown that a young Biwako lived in the newly founded Konohagakure, where she attended the
Academy
. One day, she fell down in front of it and was comforted by
Madara Uchiha
, whose look frightened her deeply.
Hashirama Senju
, however, managed to calm her down by giving her a flower he received earlier.






Biwako and Kushina are introduced to Sasuke.



Biwako and her husband
Hiruzen Sarutobi
 met with
Kushina Uzumaki
 and
Minato Namikaze
 shortly before Kushina was to give birth. Because Kushina was a
jinchūriki
, Hiruzen thought it best that Kushina gives birth at a secure location where Minato could maintain the seal, guarded by
Anbu
 and with Biwako and
Taji
 as her midwives. While they were on their way to the location, Kushina stopped to speak with
Mikoto Uchiha
 who had just had her own
baby
. Biwako was pleasantly surprised that Mikoto had decided to name the boy after her husband's
father
 but prompted Kushina to leave, warning her as they left that her delivery was top-secret. When Kushina went into labour, Biwako had to calm a hysterical Minato down as he maintained the seal, noting that women were a lot stronger than men. After delivering baby
Naruto
, Biwako was struck down by
Obito Uchiha
 who had also killed all the Anbu stationed outside.

Personality

Biwako seemed to be as wise and intelligent as her husband, giving somewhat sage-like advice to Kushina about childbirth, while also somewhat strict. She also seems to be very strongly opinionated about women, stating that they were far stronger than men because they can endure childbirth while men cannot. She also wasn't above reprimanding
Minato
 for not focusing on keeping the seal intact during his wife's birth even though he was
Hokage
.

In the anime, Biwako was shown to believe that when a child is born, the mother should be the first of the two parents to meet the newborn due to what they go through during childbirth, as shown when Minato tried to meet Naruto and she turned him away.

Appearance






Biwako as a child.



Biwako had long, brown hair which she kept in a high ponytail, dark eyes, slightly visible creases at the corners of her eyes and her mouth. She wore a purple kimono-like dress, along with a white haori and sandals.

As a child, Biwako's hair was shoulder-length with a pink flower hair band, she wore a green kimono, light-brown long sleeves shirt with a loquat on the back, red pants and sandals.

Abilities

While little is known of Biwako's abilities, she held the rank of
jōnin
, proving that she is quite skilled. A testament to this is the fact that she was chosen to lead a small team of midwives to deliver the child of a
jinchūriki
. Biwako was also a very skilled
medical-nin
.

Trivia

"Biwako" comes from the
loquat
, a yellow fruit bearing plant known as biwa (
ビワ
) in Japan. This fruit was also depicted on the back of her clothing when she was a child.

While unconfirmed in the manga, the anime showed that Obito's attack killed Biwako after Naruto was born.

Quotes

(To
Minato
) "
You're the Fourth Hokage, so stop being so terrified!! If she were a man, she'd have long died from the pain! At least women are strong!!
" (
四代目火影ともあろうもんがオタオタすなえ!!男なら痛さでとーにくたばっとる!じゃが女は強い!!
,
Yondaime Hokage to mo arō mon ga otaota sunae!! Otoko nara itasa de tō ni kutabattoru! Jaga onna wa tsuyoi!!
)

References