"
Blade of Hatred
" (
憎しみの刃
,
Nikushimi no Yaiba
,
Viz:
 Hate Blade) is chapter 577 of the original
Naruto
 manga.

Summary

Madara
 doubts
Tsunade
 can defeat him with the
Will of Fire
, stating power has nothing to do with will. Tsunade disagrees, saying that the will she inherited made her strong, crediting it for her revolution of
medical ninjutsu
, building an entire system, and making its three rules, which she lists to him as she
releases her seal
. She then reveals another rule: that only those who have mastered the
Ninja Art Creation Rebirth — Strength of a Hundred Technique
 are allowed to break the other three rules. The other
Kage
 are stunned to learn about this, while Madara is unfazed, having never heard of the technique. Tsunade explains it's a
kinjutsu
 only she knows how to use. Madara says that getting rid of the pollen and adding a medical-nin won't help their odds. Tsunade says all of them will go at it at once if it comes down to it, and that she's not just a medical-nin. Madara covers himself with
Susanoo
's ribcage, which Tsunade cracks with her attack. Madara notes her to be slower than the Raikage, but stronger than him. Madara tries
immolating
 Tsunade, but is
stopped
 by
Mei
, who also
attacks
.
A
 and
Ōnoki
 deal a
heavy

blow
 just as Tsunade lands a powerful kick, sending Madara crashing down. Madara concedes that Tsunade isn't as weak as he thought. Madara reminds her that she'll get herself killed if she simply rushes into battle, the Kage's source of treatment and recovery. Madara wonders what
Hashirama
 left them, saying they're nothing compared to Hashirama, and that if he had known how weak they'd be, he'd have taught Hashirama how to rise from the dead. He says the only power Hashirama left is clinging to him, and that
his own brother
 only left him his eyes and their power. Tsunade asks if he heard nothing of what she said. Madara says the only thing that could be passed to them is hatred. At the same time,
Dan Katō
 and
Chōza Akimichi
 have a conversation where Chōza informs him that Madara had been
reincarnated
 and that Tsunade — as
Hokage
 — and the other Kage were battling him, which shocks Dan. Despite Chōza's confidence in Tsunade, Dan tells him that he should use his time finding the
caster
 of the
technique
 instead of guarding the barrier that held him as Madara was not to be taken lightly, expressing his belief that only Hashirama could possibly defeat Madara. Back at the battle with Madara, Tsunade manages to land a devastating blow on Madara and as he regenerates,
Gaara

binds
 and
seals
 him. This is however, revealed to be nothing more that a
wood clone
, as Tsunade is impaled by a
Susanoo Sword
 and Madara emerges from a root telling them that when he fought Hashirama in the past, only his dōjutsu could see through the clone. To keep
Sasuke
 from following him,
Itachi
 summons a flock of crows, which stall Sasuke. Itachi finds
Kabuto
, saying that he felt where his chakra came from while he was being controlled earlier, citing it as a weakness of the technique. Kabuto isn't concerned, as he's the only one who can stop the technique. After seeing Sasuke close behind Itachi, Kabuto gets excited, exclaiming his luck had turned for the better which leaded and exasperated Itachi to remark that things had turned out worse than he expected.