Blaze Release: Kagutsuchi
 is a technique which applies
shape transformation
 to the black flames of
Amaterasu
, allowing the user to manipulate them at will. In
Sasuke Uchiha
's case, while Amaterasu is cast from his left eye, he uses his right eye to manipulate the flames.

Variants

The user can shape the flames in different varieties, for both offence and defence.

While using the ribcage state of
Susanoo
, the user can create a
defensive encampment
 by manipulating the flames to cover it.

Converging the flames in front of the user, a barrier of spike-shaped flames can be created that not only shields him, but also pierces and burns any opponent that touches it.

The user can wield the flames in their hand without being incinerated,
 as well as manipulate them into a flexible sword which launches spike-shaped projectiles when swung.

The black flames can be used simultaneously with the
Chidori
 to enhance the latter's destructive power.

The user wraps it around their sword, increasing its potency.

Influence

Similar to other
Mangekyō Sharingan
 abilities, Kagutsuchi's name is derived from Japanese myth and religion.
Kagutsuchi
 is the God of Fire in
Shinto
 and the one who brought death into the world by burning his mother,
Izanami
, to death as she gave birth to him. This made his father,
Izanagi
, kill him with the
Sword of Totsuka
.

Trivia

Sasuke's Susanoo is capable of wielding an orb of black flames, from which he can produce various weapons. Although the sword formed in this manner was initially identified as "Blaze Release: Kagutsuchi",
 it was later named as part of a derivative technique called "
Blaze Release: Susanoo Kagutsuchi
".
 In
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 3
, it is named "
Sword of Kagutsuchi
".

In
chapter 585
, the
furigana
 of this technique's name were written in
hiragana
, not in
katakana
, as they're usually written.

According to the
fourth databook
, Sasuke invented this technique when he fought
A
,
 but a
reincarnated

Tobirama Senju
 commented that he had seen it before during his lifetime.
 The only people who are confirmed to have wielded the Mangekyō during his lifetime were
Madara Uchiha
 and
Izuna Uchiha
.

In the anime, Sasuke is able to put out the black flames of Amaterasu using Kagutsuchi. This resembles the manga, where he put the black flames out as well, although this happened before his alleged invention of the technique.

References