He is an
Anbu
 Captain from
Konohagakure
.

Background

In the anime, he,
Kakashi Hatake
 and
his partner
 came to the aid of a Konoha lookout that was getting attacked by a group disguised as
Iwagakure
 shinobi, with the intention to create a rift in the peace treaty between villages. Soon after they arrived, the group retreated leading Kakashi to follow them and mercilessly kill all five of the shinobi before their group could collect intel from them.

He and his partner accompanied Hiruzen in infiltrating a secret bunker with the intention to find out who was behind the kidnapping of Anbu and jōnin in the village. After they disarmed the traps, they confronted the person behind the acts and discovered it was Orochimaru. Having been caught, the Sannin attacked the Anbu and Hiruzen and escaped.
 Afterwards, he and other Anbu were tasked by Hiruzen to capture him alive if possible, before he left the
Land of Fire
.

Appearance

He is dressed in a white cloak and black trousers with bandages tied around his right leg and black sandals. He also has brown hair tied into a short ponytail, and wears a mask with a boar motif inclusive of three markings at the top and bottom of it along with markings around the mouth and eye-holes. In Part I, he wore the standard Anbu attire and wore a sword strapped to his back.

Abilities






The Earth Release: Dropping Lid.



Being an Anbu, he is presumably capable of using
kenjutsu
 as he wields a sword and can perform ninjutsu such as the
Temporary Paralysis Technique
, which can subdue large animals and can perform the
Shadow Clone Technique
.
 He is proficient with using
Earth Release
 in conjunction with
Space–Time Ninjutsu
 to drop
gigantic earth structures
 to crush his opponent. In the anime, his skill in Earth Release is expanded upon as he is able to use the
Earth Release: Hiding in Rock Technique
 to move through the ground undetected and he can open a portal in the sky to
drip mud
 on his opponent, which encases and traps them.

Part I

Chūnin Exams

Main article:
Chūnin Exams

In the anime, he and a squad of Anbu attacked and caught
Hanare
 before she could infiltrate Konoha. After escorting her into the village, he handed her over to
Ibiki Morino
 and the
Konoha Torture and Interrogation Force
 to get information out of her.
 Later, he and his partner stood guard during a meeting between Konoha representatives and the
Fire Daimyō
. When
someone
 interrupted the meeting, he and his partner immediately restrained the intruder.

During the
Chūnin Exams
, he and his partner went to retrieve
Anko Mitarashi
 in the
Forest of Death
. After seeing that her
cursed seal
 had resurfaced and hearing that she had encountered
Orochimaru
, he told her that martial law was to be implemented whenever he was spotted and as such the exams should not continue any further. After carrying her back to the tower in the middle of the forest, their attentions are drawn to a video by
Iwashi
. They then discuss the progress of the
Three Sand Siblings
 to the tower, who are unscathed. After
Kabuto Yakushi
 killed the Anbu stationed at
Konoha Hospital
 which were gaurding
Sasuke Uchiha
, he, his partner and
Yūgao Uzuki
 randevu'd at the hospital and discussed the matter with the Third Hokage and Kakashi.

Part II

Twelve Guardian Ninja

Main article:
Twelve Guardian Ninja (Arc)

In the anime, he was seen alongside his partner watching Danzō Shimura under Tsunade's orders.

Three-Tails' Appearance

Main article:
Three-Tails' Appearance

In the anime, he and his partner were part of a Anbu team that was tasked to watch over the
Three-Tails
. After arriving and relieving Kakashi's group of watch, the group stationed themselves at the lake to write reports to send back to Konoha. While on watch, he and his partner were attacked by
Deidara
 and quickly defeated.

Itachi Pursuit Mission

Main article:
Itachi Pursuit Mission

In the anime, while patrolling Konoha's graveyard with his partner, Kabuto managed to sneak past the two, dig up the graves
of

three

shinobi
 and get their DNA.

Pain's Assault

Main article:
Pain's Assault






The Anbu captains and Ibiki face the Animal Path.



During
Pain
's
assault
 on Konoha, he was part of a three man team with
Zō
 and another
Anbu captain
. When the team encountered one of the
Animal Path
's
summon's
, they notified an
Anbu
 that was at the
Konohagakure Intelligence Division
. While the other captains
immobilised
 and
trapped
 the dog, he summoned a
gigantic earth structure
 to crush the summon, but the attack was unsuccessful. After releasing that it was a
 special kind of summon
, they began searching for the summoner. When Pain attacked the Intelligence Division, he and the other Anbu assisted
Ibiki
 while
Inoichi
's group escaped. As they attacked the dog again, they used  "Formation B", but was unsuccessful again. After being injured,
Katsuyu
 attached herself to him and began
healing
 his wounds. The Anbu captains continued fighting the Animal Path until she retreated and de-summoned all her summons in Konoha. After Pain
destroyed
 the village, he and the other captains survived the attack and guarded Ibiki, while Katsuyu healed him.

In Other Media

Video Games

Boar-Masked Anbu Member is a playable character in the following video games:

Game name
Japanese release
English release
Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Online
14 April 2013
20 July 2016

Trivia

This Anbu and his partner both share the same mask and hairstyle with
two Hoshikage Anbu
.

References