This article is about the chapter.  For other uses, see
Boruto Uzumaki (disambiguation)
.

"
Boruto Uzumaki!!
" (
うずまきボルト!!
,
Uzumaki Boruto!!
,
Viz:
 Uzumaki Boruto!!) is chapter 1 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 manga.

Summary

On
Naruto
's destroyed face in the
Hokage Rock
,
Boruto
 faces off against
Kawaki
. Overlooking a destroyed
Konohagakure
, Kawaki declares the age of shinobi over. Donning his damaged
forehead protector
 and activating his
dōjutsu
, Boruto points out he is still a shinobi, and charges towards Kawaki. Boruto thinks back on his history, from a time he himself resented shinobi, more specifically his father, who he believed did not pay enough attention to his family on account of being
Hokage
. Boruto recalls a mission his team was assigned, subduing a bear.
 Upon reporting to Naruto,
Katasuke
 interrupts them, asking Naruto's permission to allow the use of the
Kote
 in the upcoming
Chūnin Exams
, which Naruto denies. Later, Katasuke provides Boruto with cheat codes for his video-game, and suggests the Chūnin Exams would be a way to show Naruto how strong he is. Elsewhere,
Moegi
 hands her team admission papers to the exam.
Shikadai
 and
Inojin
 are not very excited about the idea, prompting her to deliver them letters from their mothers, which promptly changes their minds. Shikadai and Inojin meet with Boruto to play video-games.
Sarada
 and
Mitsuki
 join them, asking Boruto to participate in the Chūnin Exams, as it requires three-man teams. Shikadai notices Boruto's game has cheat codes, and leaves, believing the fun of the game being grinding for experience. Sarada and Mitsuki believe they convince Boruto to take the exams, when in reality, he wants to prove himself to his father. They are interrupted by
Hinata
 and
Himawari
, who have groceries for Himawari's birthday party. Naruto joins them for the party, but at the last moment, Naruto drops the cake on the floor when the
shadow clone
 is dispersed, angering Boruto. Hinata tries to defend Naruto's situation. Later, when the door bell rings, Boruto believes it to be Naruto, but actually it is
Sasuke
, looking for Naruto. Hinata informs him Naruto is still at the office. Sasuke hands Naruto a scroll from
Kaguya
's castle, and the two discuss Boruto. Later, Boruto tries attacking Sasuke, who effortlessly avoids it. Impressed with Sasuke, Boruto asks to be his disciple.

Trivia

The majority of the chapter is a retelling of the initial parts of
Boruto: Naruto the Movie
, however, most characters are wearing different outfits than what they were wearing in the film. The events also reveal to be following the novelisation version of the film itself.