"
Boruto and Kagura
" (
ボルトとかぐら
,
Boruto to Kagura
) is episode 31 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Kagura
 tells
Boruto
 he'd never understand his upbringing, and attacks. He seemingly bisects Boruto, but it's only a shadow clone. Kagura continues to attack Boruto, with
Shizuma
's approval, who tells him to use more of
Hiramekarei
's power. Boruto reminds Kagura what he said about being the only one who decides how he lives, and Kagura responds that he's there because Shizuma acknowledged him. Boruto is unconvinced due to Kagura's expression. Boruto feints with three clones and distracts Kagura using his jacket, landing a hit. Boruto continues to dodge and block Kagura's attacks. Shizuma interrupts their fight, and begins swaying Kagura again, but
 Boruto argues that
Chōjūrō
 wouldn't have given him Hiramekarei if he thought he was what Shizuma claims he is. Shizuma claims Chōjūrō has secretly assassinated all those opposing him, and that he'll create a just future by hiding nothing and exposing everything.
Mitsuki
 arrives and shows everyone the scroll
Suigetsu
 gave him, with intel revealing that his high echelon associates, who have secretly been dealing with the
Land of Waves
, have just confessed to having their opponents assassinated. Shizuma is unconcerned about it, as he just wants the return of the Bloody Mist regardless. Shizuma didn't expect Kagura to follow him so far along his plans. When Mitsuki asks him about his motives, Shizuma reveals that he wants war because he finds it funny. Using his own blood and
Samehada
, Shizuma turns the mist around them red. Mitsuki and Boruto attack Shizuma, pushing him back slightly, until Shizuma absorbs Mitsuki's
Wind Release
 with Samehada, causing its scales to rip through the bandages. They also learn that Samehada is also absorbing their chakra from their wounds through the red mist. Boruto attacks with clones, and Mitsuki manages to get close enough to cut Shizuma's throat, but it's only a water clone. The deception lets the real Shizuma pin Mitsuki down with water spikes, but Mitsuki manages to avoid a fatal hit with Wind Release. Though alive, Mitsuki is exhausted, so Shizuma turns his attention to Boruto. Shizuma finds it a waste that Kagura won't kill Boruto. Mitsuki draws Samehada's attention with a shadow clone, while Boruto and his own clones propel him forward with Wind Release, landing a powerful hit and disarming him in the process. Shizuma comes at Boruto with a water sword, but Kagura blocks it, asking Shizuma to stop. Shizuma reconnects with Samehada, which begins turning him into a shark-like monster. Chōjūrō arrives after evacuating the others and explains Samehada's nature, saying it claimed Shizuma because of his inexperience. Chōjūrō wants to finish him with Hiramekarei, but Kagura convinces him to let him use it. Kagura engages Shizuma, but is weakened after having his chakra drained. Boruto comes to his aid and takes half of Hiramekarei. Together, they manage to separate Shizuma from Samehada, ending the fight.
Iwabee
 arrives with
Tsurushi
, who is carrying
Sarada
, who warns Boruto they'll be late for roll call. Iwabee carries Boruto, and the Konoha students depart as the red mist dissipates.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Amanda Miller
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Cherami Leigh
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Robbie Daymond
Iwabee Yuino
Shinya Hamazoe
浜添 伸也
Hamazoe Shin'ya
Ray Chase
Kagura Karatachi
Keisuke Komoto
河本 啓佑
Kōmoto Keisuke
Bryce Papenbrook
Shizuma Hoshigaki
Ryohei Kimura
木村 良平
Kimura Ryōhei
Xander Mobus
Chōjūrō
Koki Miyata
宮田 幸季
Miyata Kōki
Brian Beacock
Mei Terumī
Yurika Hino
日野 由利加
Hino Yurika
Mary Elizabeth McGlynn
Tsurushi Hachiya
Shinya Takahashi
高橋 伸也
Takahashi Shin'ya
Lucien Dodge