This article is about the Blue Vortex chapter.  For other uses, see
Boruto (disambiguation)
.

"
Boruto
" (
ボルト
,
Boruto
) is chapter 1 of the
Boruto: Two Blue Vortex
 manga.

Summary

Three years after
Boruto
 and
Sasuke
 left
Konohagakure
,
Sarada
 once again tries to speak on Boruto's behalf to
Shikamaru
, now the Eighth
Hokage
. He is resolute that Boruto crossed the line after being given many chances, and
Konohamaru
, now Shikamaru's attendant, adds they have
Ada
's testimony with her
Senrigan
. Shikamaru adds that even if he rescinded kill orders for Boruto, many villagers would still hate him for killing
Naruto
, and tells her to return to her missions. She mouths off to him, and he expresses concern for her shinobi career, saying she might stay a
genin
 forever. She asks if that's because Sasuke is a traitor as well, but he denies it. She points out Naruto's own history of bringing back Sasuke, a
missing-nin
, and becoming
Hokage
 while still a genin, declaring he's her role model, not Shikamaru.
Kawaki
 visits the
imprisoned
 Naruto and
Hinata
. Sarada discusses her meeting and outburst with
Sumire
, who recapitulates how they're the ones deemed weird, remembering true history. While some inconsistencies bothered others and even Shikamaru at first, like Kawaki's body being modified by
Kara
 despite supposedly being born and raised in Konoha, and
Momoshiki
's absence in Kawaki,
Omnipotence
 slowly dissipated these concerns over the years.
 They wonder how they could go against such an ability, and visit Ada and
Daemon
. Daemon deems it an unwinnable game, and Ada claims to have started to understand how it worked. She summarises what Omnipotence is and how it works. She doesn't know if there's a way to reverse it, but thinks it'll be useless to try convincing those affected. Sarada considers the truth reasonable enough to explain to others, but Ada points out that from everyone else's perspectives, hers and Sumire's memories are the ones that come across as altered. Ada feels it would be more practical to rewrite new memories, which comes with its own risks. She is still puzzled by their retention of their memories when they're not
Ōtsutsuki
, raising the question if they're actually entranced by her. Recalling Shikamaru's warning not to be found out, specially by Daemon, they play it off as putting an effort to hide their feelings. Daemon continues to watch them.
Mitsuki
 checks on Kawaki, who is bothered by Mitsuki's
killing intent
. He believes Boruto still wants to kill Kawaki, and has likely developed the ability to
erase his chakra
 signature. Kawaki reminds him that he can still sense Boruto. He is fine with Mitsuki wanting to protect him, but asks him not to follow him around like a pervert. Kawaki is notified that some
Claw Marks
 were discovered and flies off, leaving Mitsuki to mutter to himself that Kawaki is his sun.
Himawari
 spars with
Chōchō
. They're joined by
Shikadai
 and
Inojin
, who praise Himawari's performance. She confesses she doesn't want to get strong just for the sake of it, but because she wants to help Boruto. What everyone says about him doesn't match what she remembers, and she doesn't believe he'd kill her father, recalling him protecting them before. She feels there must be an explanation, which means Boruto is in deep trouble, and believes her father is still alive. Kawaki
shrinks
 the newly discovered Claw Mark. The Konoha shinobi wonder why
Code
 never attacks despite coming so close, and wonder if he's prioritising Boruto, who he has a grudge against and is away from the village. Kawaki discovers a Claw Mark on one of their necks, getting rid of it. He notifies Shikamaru, and wants to gather everyone who has investigated to check them for marks and shrink any they find.
Claw Grime
 emerge from shinobi around the village and attack. The unknown chakra is detected. Shikamaru orders Konohamaru to coordinate evacuation, and ponders why Code would attack now. Kawaki and Sarada fight the grime, with more arriving through each other's Claw Marks. Code emerges and greets Sarada, telling her he's looking for Boruto. She tells him Boruto left three years ago, but he knows that, having chased him for almost two years. Now, he wants to draw Boruto to him by attacking his friends in Konoha. Boruto arrives, stepping on Code's face, telling him that his attitude is why girls are creeped out by him. Kawaki senses him, as do the
sensors
, who notify Shikamaru. Ada begins watching with her Senrigan. Shikamaru prioritises fighting Code, but wants everyone on alert to find out Boruto's plan. Boruto faces off against Code, while Kawaki is more interested in Boruto's resurgence.