"
Breach of Orders
" (
命令違反
,
Meirei Ihan
) is episode 229 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Kurobane
 and
Jujumaru
 interrogate a captive, having taken something from him, and wanting to know about one of his friends. The boy refuses to cooperate, so Kurobane tortures him to acquire information, killing him. He learns that
Konoha
 has been involved.
Shikadai
,
Chōchō
, and
Kawaki
 guard
Mozuku
. Mozuku is concerned by Kawaki's lack of interest as Shikadai explains about the
Land of Calm Seas
. He is exasperated when Kawaki reveals he's not a shinobi yet, and thinks he should have asked for a discount. Mozuku claims the artwork he bought is an old vase requested by his grandmother.
Naruto
 and
Shikamaru
 discuss Kawaki's situation.
Konohamaru
 arrives with intel of a discovery of a boy's corpse, killed with ninjutsu, that matches other five known incidents. Shikamaru tells him to stay on alert.
Team 7
 is guarding livestock, but the cows suddenly get agitated by Kurobane and Jujumaru, who run near them.
Boruto
 smells blood on the two.
 They ignore Team 7, and Kurobane confirms their target's
direction
. While going through a narrow passage on mountain, Kawaki saves Mozuku from falling, and he refuses to let Chōchō carry the vase, deeming it more valuable than his life. They stop to eat by a river. Mozuku and Kawaki bond over coming from less prosperous upbringing. Kurobane and Jujumaru watch them, and wait until night to make a move. They create a mist to obscure their movements, and steal Mozuku's package. The mist clears, revealing Jujumaru controlling a
web of blood
. Kurobane leaves after saying Mozuku's package is the last, and confirms having killed the others. Mozuku touches one of Jujumaru's blood threads, which forces him to hurt himself. Shikadai knocks him out to stop him. Kawaki destroys the threads with an energy blast, but they regenerate. Shikadai takes a moment to think, and asks Chōchō to go through the threads, destroying many of them. He determined how fast they can regenerate. Jujumaru has Chōchō prepare to attack, but she turns around and attacks him instead, Shikadai having taken control of her with
his shadow
. He and Kawaki fight Jujumaru while Chōchō gets injured protecting Mozuku. They defeat and restrain him, while Mozuku
treats
 Chōchō. Shikadai tells Mozuku to explain himself. Mozuku reveals there's an epidemic in the Land of Calms Seas, but the daimyō has a monopoly on the treatment, and the high price prevents most citizens from affording it. Mozuku's master is a
medical-nin
 who served the daimyō and developed a more affordable treatment, but was discovered, so he and his students were targeted. He sent his students with money abroad to further develop a cure with colleagues, which is why Mozuku is so frugal with money. The daimyō is trying to acquire their cure to monetise it. Mozuku begs them to recover the medicine, and explains that if he had been upfront about his request, he wouldn't have been able to afford the mission with the little money he has left. Shikadai wants to be back to Konoha for safety, but Kawaki defies him and goes with Mozuku.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Kawaki
Yuma Uchida
内田 雄馬
Uchida Yūma
Shikadai Nara
Kensho Ono
小野 賢章
Ono Kenshō
Chōchō Akimichi
Ryoko Shiraishi
白石 涼子
Shiraishi Ryōko
Mozuku
Sara Matsumoto
松本 沙羅
Matsumoto Sara
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Shikamaru Nara
Shotaro Morikubo
森久保 祥太郎
Morikubo Shōtarō
Konohamaru Sarutobi
Hidenori Takahashi
高橋 英則
Takahashi Hidenori
Kurobane
Tarusuke Shingaki
新垣 樽助
Shingaki Tarusuke
Jujumaru
Tatsumaru Tachibana
橘 龍丸
Tachibana Tatsumaru
Boy
Aoi Inase
いなせ あおい
Inase Aoi
Aosa
Jin Domon
土門 仁
Domon Jin