This article is about the Boruto episode.  For other uses, see
Breakthrough (disambiguation)
.

"
Breakthrough
" (
突破口
,
Toppakō
) is episode 280 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Boruto
 confronts
Kiseru
 about
Batta
's and
Fugō
's deaths. Kiseru questions Boruto's trust in
Rokuro
's word over his. Boruto questions him about the communication device Batta stole from him. Kiseru runs away from the gate, Boruto chasing him.
Shamo
 and
Yatsume
 discuss Boruto's leading attitude.
Namua
's wound is deeper than they thought, so Shamo goes ahead to ask if Rokuro has first aid kits, also updating him that Kiseru might work for
Ōga
. Rokuro is confident he has found an exit. Namua wishes he could sleep once more without nightmares before dying. Shamo returns with Rokuro, who has determined that if Kiseru is working for Ōga, they can make him reveal how to leave. Despite his injury, Namua holds the closing gate open so the other three can go after Boruto, and loses consciousness. Kiseru can't get a message through the device, Boruto sees he has it back. Kiseru offers his 7 card, but Boruto is uninterested in it. The other three arrive and surround Kiseru. Yatsume questions him about his dream, and he admits to the lie. He escapes by digging down with
Fire Release
, the others following him to an underground cave system. Kiseru attacks the ceiling, causing parts of it to collapse.
 Shamo protects Yatsume with his
Earth Release
. Rokuro baits Kiseru out of hiding, and sends a
parasite
 at him, which Kiseru pulls out before it gets inside him completely. Rokuro attempts to send several at once, but Kiseru
burns
 them, using the flames to sneak close to Rokuro and land a hit on an injury he failed to hide from Kiseru. He's about to kill Rokuro when Boruto's
Vanishing Rasengan
 hits him, causing him to retreat. Rokuro warns Boruto that Kiseru intends to separate them so he can take them out one by one. The shinobi who trapped
Mitsuki
 bait him,
Sarada
, and
Kawaki
, surrounding them. Kiseru reaches Shamo and Yatsume, and targets Yatsume first, hitting her in the gut. She lures him to a water pool, where she uses
Lightning Release
. He resists it. Boruto yells at him to stop, Shamo attacks him
Earth Release
, causing him to retreat and drop a scroll. Yatsume is scared and asks Boruto to stop Kiseru. Sarada recognises the shinobi who ambushed them as
Konoha

Anbu
, their leader allowing them to share intel. They're from a joint team from the
Five Great Shinobi Countries
 investigating recent mass disappearances all over. Shamo is surprised by the contents of Kiseru's scroll. The Anbu reveal Kiseru is part of their team who was sent undercover to investigate the disappearances, his role as an Outer also an infiltration mission. The Anbu suspect the one behind the disappearances is a remnant of
Kara
. Kawaki wants to know about Kiseru's Kara intel, but they explain that Kiseru, along many other elite jōnin sent to investigate have vanished. The only information they have received back from any of them was not to trust anything, though they don't know what to make of it. Shamo rushes to warn Boruto that Kiseru isn't Ōga's subordinate before the two fight again while Yatsume stays behind, injured. Boruto's accusation of everything being an illusion with him makes Kiseru realise what the warning meant. Sarada thinks that Boruto might be working with Kiseru if they are together, but the Anbu say that they aren't able to reveal their identity even to those they trust. They add that Kiseru volunteered for the mission to save his friend, who also went missing investigating it and delivered them their only warning. They reveal that Kiseru has advanced
medical ninjutsu
 knowledge, and are concerned about how he is faring with the strain of solitude, unable to trust anyone, and being suspected by everyone. Kiseru and Boruto fight. Shamo tries warning them it's a misunderstanding, putting himself between them. Boruto stops his attack, but Shamo is hit by Kiseru's. Shamo hands Boruto Kiseru's scroll. Kiseru couldn't trust anyone because someone tried to frame him for killing Batta. He stabs Boruto, shocking the arriving Rokuro and Yatsume, telling him the maze is actually a
genjutsu
. He performs a jutsu, leaving everything to him, and passes out. Boruto wakes up in a white chamber, where everyone is held in suspended animation.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Shamo
Aoi Inase
いなせ あおい
Inase Aoi
Yatsume
Sara Matsumoto
松本 沙羅
Matsumoto Sara
Kiseru
Katsunori Okai
岡井 カツノリ
Okai Katsunori
Namua
Shinya Hamazoe
浜添 伸也
Hamazoe Shin'ya
Rokuro
Atsushi Abe
阿部 敦
Abe Atsushi
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Kawaki
Yuma Uchida
内田 雄馬
Uchida Yūma
Konoha Anbu
Ryoko Shiraishi
Hidenori Takahashi
白石 涼子
高橋 英則
Shiraishi Ryōko
Takahashi Hidenori