"
Bro
" (
兄弟
,
Kyōdai
) is chapter 54 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 manga.

Summary

Momoshiki
 is satisfied, having blocked
Sasuke
 from using
his space-time ninjutsu
, and glad to have emerged a second time, feeling free. Sasuke deduces from Momoshiki's movements that
Boruto
's previous injuries, including his broken wrist, have been healed.
Kawaki
 recalls his promise to get rid of
Kāma
 with Boruto, and tries calling out to him. Momoshiki muses that Kawaki is also free, noting that
Isshiki
's soul has completely vanished, and wonders where is his smile. Kawaki continues calling out to Boruto, and Momoshiki notes his freedom is fleeting. Kawaki attacks Momoshiki, who counterattacks. Dodging one of Kawaki's attacks, Momoshiki flies up and comes down, stabbing Kawaki in the back. Momoshiki confirms the progression is quite far, which should make his plan possible. Sasuke kicks Momoshiki aside.
 Kawaki asks what he means, and Momoshiki explains that even if Kāma has vanished, the data it extracted remains in his body. Much like Boruto's, Kawaki's Kāma was about 80% extracted, meaning most of his body is mostly
Ōtsutsuki
, and thus a viable sacrifice to cultivate a
God Tree
. Its fruit might be smaller, but still decently sized. Momoshiki plans to find
Isshiki's Ten-Tails
 and feed Kawaki to it. Kawaki is furious at Ōtsutsuki using people as objects and strikes again.
Naruto
 struggles, and fails to get up. Feeling heavy like lead, he passes out. Kawaki continues calling out to Boruto as he fights Momoshiki. Sasuke attacks him with his
sword
, which he electrifies when Momoshiki blocks it. Momoshiki jumps back, and asks if Sasuke is really going to kill his favourite student. Recalling his promise to Boruto, Sasuke confirms he will, because he's Boruto's teacher, and uses
Amaterasu
. Momoshiki blocks it with a
shadow clone
. Careful not to overuse chakra, Sasuke goes for a
Fire Release: Great Fireball Technique
, which Momoshiki dodges. Sasuke notes that Momoshiki hasn't absorbed a single jutsu when he's had the opportunity. Kawaki notices Naruto passed out and alerts Sasuke, who believes it's a side effect from
the power he used
. He says they have to focus on Momoshiki, who while intent on sacrificing Kawaki, could just as easily
flee with space-time ninjutsu
. He wants to recover Boruto so they have a way to go back. Noting that Momoshiki emerged when Boruto passed out from using too much chakra, and that he has avoided absorbing jutsu, Sasuke believes that if they can refill Boruto's chakra, Boruto will resurface. From a distance, Momoshiki considers his options. Sasuke wants to force Momoshiki to
absorb chakra
 without them going down first. Something hits Sasuke in the chest, knocking him to the floor. Momoshiki comments on how painful it is, and Sasuke understands he used Boruto's
Vanishing Rasengan
. Thinking back more of his arguments with Boruto, Kawaki attacks again. When Momoshiki prepares to take him away, Kawaki begins to self-immolate, forcing Momoshiki to absorb the
fire
 so as not to lose his only sacrifice. Momoshiki considers it not to be much, but decides to move fast before Boruto recovers. He attempts to teleport with Kawaki, but Boruto stops him. Boruto regains control and breaks Momoshiki's horn off, and the Kāma recedes. He collapses, exhausted, and apologises to Kawaki for the trouble. Kawaki apologises back. Sasuke notices something off with Naruto.