"
By You
" (
お前に
,
Omae ni
,
Viz:
 Because of You) is chapter 614 of the original
Naruto
 manga.

Summary

Though
Chōji
 tries to console his best friend,
Shikamaru
 reminds him and
Ino
 that they were in the middle of war and that there was no time for unnecessary conversation, and that they had to carry out his father's strategy. Confused,
Naruto
 begins to question the situation, but before they can explain that
Inoichi
 and
Shikaku
 had been killed, the
Ten-Tails
 attacks once more. Leaping into action,
Neji
 and
Hiashi
 are able to
deflect
 the beast's attack, and as everyone begins to praise the
Hyūga clan
, Hiashi tells Naruto that he had to focus and that in war people might die, but if they lost the war, everyone would die. As he assures them that Inoichi and Shikaku were proud as
shinobi
 to have died before their children, Neji echoes his uncle's sentiments, referring to his own
father's sacrifice
. With this Neji, Hiashi, and
Hinata
 declare that they would protect him until the very end. Meanwhile atop the Ten-Tails,
Madara
 and
Obito
 discuss how to proceed with their plans and the fact that in order to become the beast's
jinchūriki
, Madara required a living body which could only be given by Obito
sacrificing
 his own, which left the legendary
Uchiha
, at the mercy of his descendant. With Obito deciding to teach the
Allied Shinobi Forces
 despair, the beast begins to attack again, sending
wooden projectiles
 flying towards the shinobi.  As the attacks are being deflected from Naruto by the Hyūga,
Kitsuchi
 builds his chakra in preparation to use his
signature technique
. With the beast's hand itself bearing down on the group, Hiashi uses the
Eight Trigrams Vacuum Wall Palm
 to deflect it. The beast then uses a pin-point attack which Hiashi realises they could not deflect in time. As Hinata throws out her arms to protect Naruto, Neji actually intercepts the attack, and while Naruto calls for the medics, Neji notes that it was already too late. As Hiashi looks on in horror and Hinata cries openly, Naruto questions why a genius from the Hyūga clan would throw away his life for him, and Neji, who notes that he finally understood his father's feelings, states that it was for that exact reason that he did it: because Naruto called him a genius. With this, the
juinjutsu
 on Neji's forehead disappears as it seals away his
Byakugan
. Obito then taunts Naruto, questioning if it had not been him who stated that he would not let his friends die.

Trivia

In the top panel of page 6, where Madara and Obito discuss their situation, they lack the tendrils connecting the Ten-Tails to the back of their necks.