The
Byakugan
 (
白眼
,
literally meaning:
 White Eye,
meaning (Viz):
 All Seeing White Eye) is a
kekkei genkai

dōjutsu
 that originated from the
Ōtsutsuki clan
. After the Ōtsutsuki settled on
Earth
,
 the Byakugan became more commonly associated with the
Hyūga clan
,
 descendants of the Ōtsutsuki. It is regarded as one of the "Three Great Dōjutsu", the others being the
Sharingan
 and the
Rinnegan
.

Overview






The Byakugan activated.



Unlike dōjutsu such as the
Sharingan
, which do not manifest until users meet certain conditions,
 the Byakugan is present from the time of birth. Individuals with the Byakugan are typically identifiable by their unique eyes: the
irides
 are enlarged and white (light lavender in the anime), and there are no distinguishable pupils. When users activate their Byakugan, the pupils become more distinct and the increased blood flow to their eyes causes the veins near their temples to bulge.
 Some users' Byakugan take on atypical characteristics:

Himawari Uzumaki
 is a descendant of the Hyūga clan through her
mother
, but ordinarily has the same blue eyes as her
father
. Her eyes become featureless white only while her Byakugan are in use.

In
Itachi Shinden
,
Mukai Kohinata
's family split off from the Hyūga clan several generations before his birth, leading most to assume his bloodline was too diluted to possess the Byakugan. Mukai does in fact have a Byakugan, but only in his left eye and which only resembles a Byakugan when in use.

Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki
's Byakugan usually appeared identical to any other Byakugan, but took on a golden colour after he absorbs
Kinshiki Ōtsutsuki
's power.

Urashiki Ōtsutsuki
's Byakugan, similarly to Momoshiki's, appeared like any other, but also took on a golden colour after consuming the chakra he collected along his own eyes.

Isshiki Ōtsutsuki
 seemingly only possessed one Byakugan, in his left eye; his right eye is a
different dōjutsu
.

The Byakugan's array of abilities have rendered it highly coveted.
Kumogakure
 has made various attempts to acquire and study the Byakugan over the years, notably during the
Hyūga Affair
.

Ao
 of
Kirigakure
 was able to acquire a single Byakugan from a Hyūga he defeated,
 which he went to
great lengths
 to protect;
 unlike other dōjutsu that have been transplanted, Ao could activate and deactivate his Byakugan at will.
 When
Danzō Shimura
 of
Konohagakure
 learned of Ao's Byakugan, he made immediate plans to either destroy it or take it for himself.
 In order to prevent the Byakugan from being acquired by enemies, the Hyūga clan developed a practice of applying
cursed seals
 to most of its members; when those branded with the cursed seal die, their Byakugan are destroyed.

The anime implies that simply possessing a Byakugan is not enough to be able to use its powers; even if one is born with visible traits of it, they must undergo intense training before the Byakugan's power can be activated, something not all users can accomplish.
 The anime likewise shows the Byakugan activating automatically if the user is under stressful circumstances, even if they haven't learned how to activate it on their own.
 Once a user does become able to use the Byakugan, they must avoid using it excessively, otherwise they will be rendered unable to keep it active until they've taken time to rest.

Abilities






The Byakugan's near 360º field of vision and its blind spot.



Individuals with a Byakugan have a near-360º field of vision around themselves, save for a small blindspot at the back of the neck above the
first thoracic vertebra
.
 (Mukai, because only his left eye is a Byakugan, also lacks its enhanced sight on his right side.)
 The Byakugan's vision can penetrate almost any object, allowing users to see through walls,
 peer underground,
 or even examine the contents of a person's body.
 Certain
barriers
 have been shown to block a Byakugan's sight,
 as have smokescreens that are comprised of a particular mineral dust.
 Users can focus their vision on anything and everything within the Byakugan's range, allowing them to monitor individuals from afar
 or to quickly survey a vast area and pinpoint specific locations within that area.
 The exact range of the Byakugan varies between users, but can be improved with training: in Part I,
Neji Hyūga
's Byakugan had a maximum range of fifty meters,
 but by Part II could see at least 800 meters away.

Hinata
's Byakugan on the other hand could see at least 1 kilometer in part 1,
 at least 10 kilometers in part 2,
 and increased to at least 20 kilometers during
The Last
,
 while
Kaguya Ōtsutsuki
 can cover much of the globe with her own Byakugan.






The Byakugan viewing the chakra pathway system.



The Byakugan can see
chakra
 to a greater degree than the Sharingan.
 This enables users to distinguish certain types of
clones
 and even identify specific individuals' chakra signatures.
 Its ability to see chakra is acute enough to see the
chakra pathway system
 within a target's body and the 361
tenketsu
 that run along it. The Hyūga have devised the
Gentle Fist
 style of combat to specifically take advantage of this ability, wherein they strike an opponent's tenketsu to either seal or forcibly open them, thus giving the user complete control over their opponent's chakra.
 In
Book of Dark Night
, Mukai is able to use the Gentle Fist to carefully split an opponent's chakra-based
jutsu
 so that it harmlessly passes around him.






The Byakugan peering through walls.



As a result of the Byakugan's ability to see chakra, users are able to determine if an opponent is currently performing a
genjutsu
.
 Similarly, Ao credited his Byakugan for being able to expose that the
Fourth Mizukage
 was under the influence of a genjutsu.
 But unlike the Sharingan, the Byakugan does not seem to give its users any particular defence against an opponent's genjutsu; in
Book of Dark Night
, genjutsu is deemed a viable method of capturing Mukai Kohinata, even with his Byakugan. The Byakugan can at least increase the effectiveness of the user's genjutsu, as Kaguya combined her Byakugan's vast range with the
Infinite Tsukuyomi
 in order to subjugate entire nations.
 Momoshiki claimed his Byakugan could read the fate of others, though he lamented it didn't allow him to see his own.

Episodes of the anime have depicted the Byakugan as having a variety of miscellaneous abilities not seen elsewhere in the series:

It can use
infrared
 to detect a target through their body heat.

It can determine the development of one's chakra, and even tell if one can mould chakra at all.

It can see into a target's mind to determine their thoughts and feelings, even to look through their memories.
 Kaguya's ability to do so was so great that
Hamura Ōtsutsuki
, using his own Byakugan, was unable to repel her.

Kaguya could likewise emit pulses of chakra from her Byakugan to subdue targets.

It enables its users to analyse an opponent's tactics during a fight, granting them a certain amount of predictive ability.

Evolution






Toneri's Tenseigan.



When an Ōtsutsuki is implanted with the Byakugan of a Hyūga, this combination of the two clans' chakra transforms the Byakugan into
Tenseigan
. This transformation takes several days to complete, but once achieved the wielder gains several new skills, such as
Tenseigan Chakra Mode
 and
Truth-Seeking Balls
. The Tenseigan can lose its power and revert back to Byakugan if the user is weakened enough in battle.

In the anime,
Urashiki Ōtsutsuki
 could switch his eyes back and forth between Byakugan and
Rinnegan
 at will.

Forms

The standard appearance of the Byakugan.
Momoshiki
 and
Urashiki
's golden Byakugan.

Trivia

The kanji for Byakugan (
白眼
) can also be read as "shirome" or "hakugan". When the latter two readings are used, "白眼" is used to refer to the
sclerae
.

Amado Sanzu
 created a drug to weaken the Byakugan, one of several options he devised in his mission to defeat Isshiki Ōtsutsuki. He believes those who ingest the drug would at the very least have their Byakugan's visual powers reduced, but speculates it could even kill them. For this reason, he warns against allowing Hinata or Himawari to take the drug.

In the anime, the Byakugan's sight is normally illustrated in an inverted black and white colour scheme.

In the anime,
Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki
's natural eyes are the same featureless white as Byakugan,
 though he displays none of the Byakugan's abilities.

Masashi Kishimoto
 intended to give Himawari and
Boruto Uzumaki
 Byakugan when they were introduced in
Naruto
 chapter 700
, but forgot.
 Himawari is later depicted with Byakugan in "
The Day Naruto Became Hokage
".

Users are sometimes shown performing
hand seals
 to activate their Byakugan. The used seals are: Horse, Tiger with just index fingers, Boar with nearly straightened fingers, Hare, Rat, Dog, Horse, Dog, Hare, Rat, Boar with nearly straightened fingers, and Snake with the right index finger lifted. Sometimes, only the last seal is used.

Masashi Kishimoto
 stated in
Sha no Sho
 that if a Sharingan user and a Byakugan user were to mate, their offspring would have one Byakugan and one Sharingan.

In
Naruto Shippūden the Movie
, the Byakugan is able to see one's chakra
nature
 affinity.

The Byakugan cannot see the original of a clone made by the
Shadow Clone Technique

 .

References