This article is about the group. For the story arc, see
Byakuya Gang Arc
.

The
Byakuya Gang
 (
白夜団
,
Byakuyadan
) was a group of owl-masked thieves formed by
Gekkō
 who stole from the rich and then sold the goods, in an effort to distribute the proceeds to the poor in remote areas, leading to them being regarded as noble thieves.

Their actions have ultimately lead them to gain much support from various civilians in the
Land of Fire
. However, the group was revealed to be a ruse by Gekkō, who was building up a group of followers that would ultimately aid him in becoming rich himself.

History

After being active in several villages, the group orchestrated
Haguruma
 to unknowingly create a diversion for them in the
Konoha Bank
, while they used
Ryōgi
's
Ice Release
 to break into the bank's safe and steal all of the jewels. Later, the group robbed the Nakrin Building for a huge haul, and on another day, robbed the Fukutoku Store after tying up a staff member.

As the gang grew more popular throughout the
Land of Fire
, they led the public to believe that wealthy groups and organisations are evil that takes advantage of the less fortunate. They riled Konoha citizens to protest against the
Kaminarimon Company Headquarters
, applying a
Genjutsu Cursed Seal
 on several rioters to further discontent. However, this was all part of Gekkō's "Crest of Night Strategy" (
極夜作戦
,
Kokuya Sakusen
): having the shinobi forces focus on calming the protesters in fabricated claims of the
Kaminarimon Company
's tyranny while the gang aims for the relatively unguarded
Ninjutsu Research Centre
, specifically for
Katasuke Tōno
's storage unit for every techniques in existence.

Planning to sell the unit for a huge profit, enough to retire in luxury with, the Byakuya Gang's scheme ultimately fell when the rioters were quelled upon discovery of the cursed seals, and a team of Konoha genin managed to defeat and capture all the members. Gekkō, who abandoned all of his teammates so he could make off with the stolen goods for himself, was defeated by the
Seventh Hokage
 and sent to prison.