"
Captain Denki's First Mission
" (
デンキ隊長の初任務
,
Denki Taichō no Hatsu Ninmu
) is episode 232 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Naruto
 assigns
Team 5
 a mission to the
Land of Water
, to deliver
autonomous puppets
 to a mine, with the puppet developers schedule to join them after delivery. It's a
B-rank
 mission, which
Shikamaru
 explains is due to the likelihood of someone trying to steal the latest model puppets. At the
Lightning Burger
,
Metal Lee
 and
Iwabee
 wonder what their next mission will be, and complain to
Team 7
 they never get anything interesting.
Denki
 arrives, and shocks them with news of their mission. They receive mission details from
Katasuke
, who explains that Dotō Island, previously a fishing village, has discovered gold deposits. However, excavation is dangerous due to soft soil, so they'll be transporting autonomous puppets for the job. Katasuke wants Denki to run adjustment tests before he and other researchers arrive, as most of them are more analysts than maintenance focused. He spends the rest of the day explaining to Denki how the puppets work. Denki asks Katasuke what was the most difficult part of the development process. Katasuke answers that all of it was difficult, as there were several points where he wished to scrap everything and start over, stressing the importance of adapting to changes as they arise.
 He reveals that he requested Denki's team for this mission because of what he saw during the
Chūnin Exams
. The next day, Iwabee notices Denki is sleepy before they depart. They take a train and two boats to reach Dotō Island, and hear that many people are coming over since the gold was discovered. As they arrive, Metal and Iwabee notice Denki is nervous, and encourage him. They're received by
Ōnami
, head of the excavation site. He is rather disappointed by Denki and Team 5, and Denki explains he's been trained in fine-tuning the puppets, and that the developers will join them later. One the trail to the mine's entrance, Denki begins to lag behind, so they stop to rest. Ōnami questions if Denki really is a shinobi, but is unable to even lift the casing he was carrying. They arrive by sunset, and Ōnami explains their two-shift security system. At the mine, Ōnami shows the workers the puppets as Team 5 sets them up. Denki makes a demonstration, impressing the workers. Two of them exchange looks. Ōnami comes around to Denki, and Team 5 finishes setting the puppets up. The two workers get gold they had hidden, and take Ōnami hostage against retaliation. They push Ōnami on top of Metal, and Denki has to stop Iwabee from using
Earth Release
 in the mine, which could cause a collapse. The thieves manage to escape and lock the mine, which will remain closed until the next shift, and shut off the ventilation system. Denki analyses the data he has on the mine, and finds a spot where they can dig with the puppets without causing a collapse. They escape, and use the puppets to locate the gold with the thieves. They find them attempting to escape by boat. One of them attacks with
Water Release: Water Dragon Bullet Technique
, which Iwabee blocks with
Earth Release: Earth-Style Wall
. Some of the water hits the puppets, and Iwabee tells to put them away now that they have done their job. Recalling Katasuke's words, Denki adapts the puppets and uses them to catch the thieves' boat, allowing Iwabee to damage its engine. Iwabee and Metal knock the thieves out. The next day, Ōnami thanks Team 5, and apologises for underestimating Denki. The other researchers arrive. Metal is impressed that Denki knew so much about the mines, and he reveals the reason he was so sleepy and nervous before was because he was studying its complex structure on the way. Iwabee believes their mission was a success, but Denki points out that with the researchers present, there's more for them to do.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Denki Kaminarimon
Chihiro Ikki
一木 千洋
Ikki Chihiro
Iwabee Yuino
Shinya Hamazoe
浜添 伸也
Hamazoe Shin'ya
Metal Lee
Ryo Nishitani
西谷 亮
Nishitani Ryō
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Shikamaru Nara
Shotaro Morikubo
森久保 祥太郎
Morikubo Shōtarō
Katasuke Tōno
Taira Kikumoto
菊本 平
Kikumoto Taira
Scientific Ninja Tool researchers
Katsunori Okai
Hirokazu Sekido
岡井 カツノリ
関戸 博一
Okai Katsunori
Sekido Hirokazu
Ōnami
Shunichi Maki
真木 駿一
Maki Shun'ichi
Tatsunami
Junichi Yanagita
柳田 淳一
Yanagita Jun'ichi
Sakanami
Masaki Nakanishi
中西 正樹
Nakanishi Masaki
Passenger ship old man
Kazuya Saji
佐治 和也
Saji Kazuya
Mine worker
Kosuke Katayama
片山 公輔
Katayama Kōsuke