This article is about the episode. For the chapter, see
Captives
.

"
Captives
" (
虜
,
Toriko
) is episode 288 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Code
 is unable to take action to hurt
Ada
. She explains she wasn't ignoring him, but was merely concerned with having bad breath after being asleep for so long. She has
Bug
 take Code to the bar. While waiting for her, Code asks Bug if Ada is interested in him, Bug chastising him for being entranced by her already. One of the guards spots Ada, asking how she got out and aiming a weapon at her. He gets flustered when she asks not to tell anyone about her, and obeys her. Bug urges Code that they need to escape while they can. Code feels enamoured by Ada's eyes, but Bug explains it's not that. Ada arrives, explaining what she
can and cannot see
. She showcases her ability by looking into what
Kawaki
 is doing, which is arguing with
Team 7
 about how to train. Kawaki is frustrated by training chakra control, which
Sarada
 deems important, and tries changing it to combat training when
Mitsuki
 asks for his suggestion. Mitsuki
blocks
 Kawaki's attack, who changes his focus to Sarada.
 He blocks her
Fire Release: Great Fireball Technique
 by
changing his arm
, and distracts her by allowing a
shadow clone
 to be hit by her
shuriken
.
Boruto
 protects her from his assault. He finds Kawaki to be impatient, and wants an explanation for his attitude. Boruto and Kawaki agree to spar, and the winner gets to choose how they train. Code tries getting Ada's attention, who complains the good part was about to start. Ada knows he wants to know how to remove his power limiters, and explains only
Amado
 can do it. Code wants to kill
Naruto
 and
Sasuke
. She explains he needs an iris scan and a voice command from Amado, though she doesn't know the code word. Ada stresses that Amado's eyes have been modified though
scientific ninja tools
 in a way that the
Transformation Technique
 can't replicate, so he needs Amado's cooperation, or his actual eyes. Code thinks it would be shortsighted to just invade
Konoha
 after Amado, and Ada admires Amado's intelligence, though she still intends to kill him. Code assumes it's because he modified her body, but that's only half correct. She wants Bug to show him out. Kawaki explains that
Jigen
 put him through gruelling combat training that he hated, but when he finally leaned into it, wanting the strength the kill Jigen, he started improving rapidly. Kawaki sends an energy blast, which Boruto absorbs with his
Kāma
. Code wants to know more about Ada, but she's not interested in him since he can't get her what she wants, because he's not an
Ōtsutsuki
. She teases him by mentioning how pathetic she found Jigen's final moments to be. He is confused that he has not ripped her to pieces for insulting Jigen. Ada explains that his attraction to her is because of her other ability, and she shares his frustration of not knowing if others' feelings for her are genuine, even if they could naturally come to like her. That is why she hates Amado. Bug tries to leave, but Code doesn't allow it. He doesn't think Bug is captivated by Ada, but he confirms he is, Ada adding that Bug is just shy and scared. He realises this is why
Boro
 didn't dispose of her, and asks why Jigen wasn't affected. Ada reveals that her ability can't captivate blood relatives or Ōtsutsuki. She expresses interest in Kawaki, as his almost full conversion into Ōtsutsuki means he could like her without her ability's interference. Kawaki notices Naruto observing them, and Boruto goes on the offensive, his performance improved because of the Kāma. Boruto attacks him with a
Lightning Release: Thunderclap Arrow

kunai
, which Kawaki tries to absorb out of habit, but can't as no longer has a Kāma. Boruto defeats him, even slicing through his
forehead protector
. Kawaki finds himself pathetic, and wonders how he can protect Naruto in such a sorry state. Boruto thinks he understands Kawaki's wish to protect those he cares about, as well as his point of view of using every power at his disposal. Kawaki tells Boruto he'll stop him himself if
Momoshiki
 takes over again. Naruto wishes for them to get stronger. Boruto helps Kawaki up, and they're all surprised by the damaged forehead protector as it slips down. Ada tells Code she felt thrilled when Kawaki's ploy defeated
Isshiki
, something she hadn't experienced in a long while. Code points out that Boruto is also a viable candidate for a relationship with her. She concedes he is cute and dreamy, but believes Code needs to sacrifice him to cultivate a
God Tree
. Ada just needs one person. Bug finds them both vile and crazy. Ada and Code toast cooperation towards reaching their goals. Boruto hopes in vain to repair Kawaki's forehead protector. Kawaki thinks to himself he can't afford to be picky about how he gets stronger either.

Trivia

While it shares the same name as
chapter 69
 within the same arc, this episode however does not adapt the chapter.

When activating the Senrigan, Ada is shown with pink-glittered eye shadow. In
Boruto
 episode
290
, this was later removed.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Kawaki
Yuma Uchida
内田 雄馬
Uchida Yūma
Naruto
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Sarada
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Code
Junta Terashima
寺島 惇太
Terashima Junta
Ada
Kana Hanazawa
花澤 香菜
Hanazawa Kana
Bug
Takumi Yamazaki
山崎 たくみ
Yamazaki Takumi
Security guard
Katsunori Okai
岡井 カツノリ
Okai Katsunori