The
Cat Covering
 is a
Hiden
 technique from the
Izuno Clan
, allowing the user to fight with cat-like reflexes and abilities while enveloped in
chakra
.

Overview

The technique is usually kept in a
sealing

scroll
 that the user may access one of many different species of cats (i.e.
Persian
,
Siamese
,
Tortoiseshell
,
Rusty-spotted cat
). After weaving the required hand signs necessary to
unseal
 the technique, the user becomes enveloped in a partial cloak of coloured chakra that gives the user the selected cat's colouring and attributes. Other features include a cat-like tail and ears as well as chakra-infused nails, and a heightened sense of smell and hearing; similar to the
Inuzuka clan
's
Four Legs Technique
.

Types of Cats

Stray Cat

Wasabi transforms into a "stray" cat (野良,
nora
 ), with green ears and tail, as well as yellow eyes. This transformation was responsible for making Wasabi recognized as one of the fastest students in her class at the Ninja Academy due to the greatly increased agility, which also gives her an increased jumping height.  Wasabi also gains other feline characteristics: her nails grow into claws and can be infused with chakra to raise a curtain of dust when striking the ground;  her roar is capable of scaring away predators such as wolves;  and her hearing becomes sharper, allowing her to hear distant sounds or whispers clearly.  Currently, Wasabi can access this transformation without the aid of her scroll, simply by placing her hood over her head.

Siamese Cat

Wasabi transforms into a "Siamese" cat (暹羅,
shamuro
 ), with blue ears, tail, and eyes. While transformed, Wasabi's sense of smell becomes even more acute, which is useful for locating and chasing a target based on its scent. Despite this, he does not appear to be very fast, as he was unable to catch up with a fleeing monkey.

Scaled Cat

Wasabi transforms into a "scaled" cat (ミ毛,
mike
 ), whose right ear is white, the left ear is black, the tail is orange, and its eyes are yellow. While transformed, Wasabi gains a great increase in speed, becoming even more agile than a wolf. Finding herself unable to catch up with a monkey in a chase with her Siamese cat, Wasabi considers using the scaled cat as a faster option.

Spotted Cat

Wasabi transforms into a tabby cat (斑,
madara
 ), with orange ears and tail, as well as claws on his hands and feet imbued with orange chakra. This cat grants him drastic improvements in his fighting power, increasing his speed, reflexes, acrobatic abilities, and enough strength to throw his target away with a single kick. His sharp claws can be used to strike his enemies and are durable enough to collide with metal weapons, both piercing and blunt.

See Also

Claw Creation Technique