Passed down in the Izuno Clan, the user uses a scroll to bring forth the chakra shroud of a giant cat. This technique displays prodigious strength, capable of smashing a massive stone boulder with a single blow.

Overview

According to
Amagi Izuno
, this technique allows its user to be possessed by a giant cat that protects them. However, the stories are contradictory, as each time the technique is told, the cat is described as being as large as a tree, a house, and a mountain. This led Wasabi to speculate that this was a story invented by her grandmother, especially since no known member of the clan has been able to use this technique.

Although Wasabi trained to use this technique, she was unable to summon the Bakeneko (猫神; literally meaning: "Monster Cat"; Dub: "Monster Cat"), until in a desperate situation she found herself forced to resort to the scroll given to her by her grandmother, in order to save
Iwabee
 from a falling boulder. While transformed into a tabby cat , Wasabi released the sealing of the scroll, finally summoning the giant cat described in the legend.

The technique manifests as a red chakra aura that surrounds the user's entire body, taking the form of a giant cat with its left arm waving, while its right arm holds a Japanese balloon marked "10 Million Ryōs " (千万両,
sen man ryō
 ). In addition to the defensive capabilities the cat provides, it is also extremely strong, to the point of being able to destroy rocks with a single swipe .

Trivia

The
maneki neko
 (招き猫, literally "beckoning cat"; also known as welcoming cat, lucky cat, money cat, or fortune cat) is a common Japanese sculpture, often made of ceramic, which is believed to bring good luck to the owner. The sculpture depicts a cat (traditionally a
Japanese Bobtail
) beckoning with an upright paw, and is usually displayed—many times at the entrance—in shops, restaurants, and other businesses.

While the clan's most powerful jutsu, its lack of successful use until Wasabi's made many in the clan doubt its existence.

See Also

Cat Covering

Susanoo