Asuma amplifying his blade with chakra.



Chakra Flow
 (
チャクラ流し
,
Chakura Nagashi
) refers to both the flowing of
chakra
 through an object as well as any technique that increases the potency of a weapon by flowing chakra through it. Ordinarily, elemental chakra is used to flow through bladed weapons in order to either, dramatically increase their various pre-existing properties, or to gain additional advantageous effects. Usually, the user must be touching the tool to initiate chakra flow but not always as with the
Fire Release: Phoenix Sage Flower Nail Crimson
 technique, and direct contact with the weapon is not necessary to maintain chakra flow. Similarly, techniques such as
Kakuzu
's
Earth Release: Earth Spear
,
Rōshi
's
Lava Release Chakra Mode
 and the
Fourth Raikage
's
Lightning Release Chakra Mode
 are used to increase close-quarter combat offence and defence by flowing chakra directly through the user's body. However, whether through an individual's body or weapon, the exact effects observed are entirely dependent upon the respective nature and amount of the chakra used.

The known variations of chakra utilised include:

Wind
 chakra, as explained by
Asuma Sarutobi
, is used in order to increase the sharpness of bladed weapons, so much so that in the hands of an experienced user even small blades are capable of piercing substantial rocks easily, leading to his assertion that this chakra is unparalleled offensively in close and mid-ranged fights. This effect is achieved by utilising two opposing chakra currents, which are ground against each other in such a manner that they sharpen one another into fine pieces.

Lightning
 chakra, as applied to weapons, provides an increased cutting power similar to that of wind, with the addition of inducing numbness. However, this is instead achieved by inducing high-frequency vibrations within the object. Also, when the
Fourth Raikage
 flowed his lightning chakra directly
into his own body
, it was capable of electrically stimulating his nervous system. This resulted in an increase in his reaction time, raw speed, and defensive power to their utmost limits.

Earth
 chakra seemingly increases the defensive power of an object to its utmost limits, by further reinforcing the inherent properties of the material involved. However, the application of this variation has only been observed through
Kakuzu
 flowing it directly
into his own body
, where it resulted both in his skin becoming as hard as diamond and an increase in the overall destructive power of his physical attacks.

Fire
 chakra engulfs the desired weapon in intense localised flames, which follow the subsequent path of the object in question,
incinerating
 anything which comes into direct contact.

Water
 chakra can be applied to a person's body to act as a sturdy shield of armour and can withstand many physical attacks. It can even be passed onto other people and weapons.

Yin–Yang
 chakra does not conform to a single defined list of beneficial effects unlike other chakra natures, instead imitating the properties of the techniques used by the individual in question.

Shadow Imitation Technique
 through chakra flow is able to endow weapons with the ability to pierce the enemies' shadows, paralysing them in place.

Combined nature's
 chakra can seemingly be used in the same manner as the basic natures, although almost not seen or explored in the series. In the manga, the only example is
Rōshi
's
Lava Release Chakra Mode
, and in anime, another example is
Guren
's
Crystal Armour
, both chakra flow techniques used through the body.

Lava Release
 chakra seemingly engulfs desired target within a layer of lava, giving it the side effect of burning whatever it comes into contact with.

Crystal Release
 chakra shields a desired target within a layer of transparent crystal, protecting it from physical attacks and aiding in performing stronger physical attacks.

Magnet Release
 chakra magnetises an object and allows the user to manipulate the magnetised object. The magnetic effect can also be
passed on
 through direct contact with another object or person.

Asuma Sarutobi carried special
Chakra Blades
 that were fabricated from a material that absorbed chakra easier, in order to more effectively create these unique effects, which later fell into the possession of his student,
Shikamaru
. Asuma's daughter
Mirai
 eventually uses the same weapon. Asuma also taught
Naruto Uzumaki
 the basics of this technique.

Trivia

Although the use of chakra flow techniques have been seen throughout the series, the actual term, 'Chakra Flow', was first used by
Karin
 in the
Pain's Assault
 arc, when she observed the use of chakra flow by
Killer B
.

During his final battle against
Itachi Uchiha
, Sasuke infused a
Fūma Shuriken
 with lightning chakra to increase its sharpness.

Although
Darui
 and
Omoi
 have yet to show any named techniques that involves chakra flow, Darui has infused his
Cleaver Sword
 with lightning chakra to immobilise
Suigetsu Hōzuki
, as well as thrown a lightning-infused
shuriken
 to break a
sword
 that
Kisame Hoshigaki
 was holding. Omoi has channelled lightning chakra through his sword to diffuse
Deidara
's
explosive clay
.

In his battle against Sasuke,
Danzō

exhales
 wind-nature chakra onto a kunai which expands into a sharp blade shaped like a scimitar. In the anime, he does the same to shuriken, increasing their range and cutting power.

The dual swords
Kiba
, wielded by
Ameyuri Ringo
 and
Raiga Kurosuki
, are imbued with lightning to make them the sharpest swords ever forged; Curiously, they are capable of channeling natural lightning as well as lightning chakra.

In the anime, a ninja cat was able to use chakra flow through his claws to deflect weapons.

In the
light novel adaptation
 of
Mission: Protect the Waterfall Village!
,
Kakashi
 had used two kunai knives with lightning-infused chakra that had X-shaped tip-like markings at the ends to counterattack against
Kirisame
's
Water Release: Water Whip
.

In the
light novel adaptation
 of
Mission: Protect the Waterfall Village!
,
Suien
 had used water release chakra to
cover his body in water as a sturdy suit of armour
. This makes his body impervious to many physical attacks.

See Also

List of Chakra Flow Techniques

Sage Mode

Frog Kata

Six Paths Sage Mode

Jinchūriki Forms

Nine-Tails Chakra Mode

References