This technique allows the user to transfer their
chakra
 to a target. The amount of chakra transferred depends solely on the user.

Overview

This technique was originally created by
Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki
 in order to "connect" the spiritual energies of every living person. His intention was for it to be used to build and maintain peace through his religion of
ninshū
, but this technique ended up becoming another tool for war when humanity weaponised chakra. This technique is used by many shinobi, each one of them has shown to use technique in different ways.

Variations

Certain people, such as
Minato Namikaze
 and
Naruto Uzumaki
 could also mould the transferred chakra in order to adapt it to another person's specific chakra type.
 In the latter's case, due to Kurama's chakra, it also enveloped the recipients in a chakra cloak similar to his "Version 1" form, albeit with no tails.
 Once the user transfers its chakra, he/she is able to manipulate that chakra remotely.

Katsuyu
 and
its

summoners
 have a unique bond between them through
Strength of a Hundred Seal
 and they can use
Katsuyu: Immense Network Healing
. Tsunade used this technique during
Pain
's invasion of Konoha, with Tsunade first transferring her healing chakra to Katsuyu, and then Katsuyu itself transferring it to the wounded villagers.
Sakura
 used the same method of Tsunade with Katsuyu to heal wounded shinobi in Shinobi Alliance against Ten-Tails.

Tsunade
 used again this technique during the five
Kage
's fight against
Madara Uchiha
 to give
Ōnoki
 some of her chakra so that he could use a massive
Dust Release: Detachment of the Primitive World Technique
 to defeat Madara's
wood clones
.
 Sakura later used this technique to improve
Obito
's
Kamui
.

Zetsu
's
Spore Technique
 creates clones, which feed on chakra to grow are also able to transfer chakra to people they come in contact with.

Dan Katō
 was able to use this technique as a
spirit
 in Tsunade's consciousness to restore her chakra and
Strength of a Hundred Seal
.
 Obito did something similar to give his chakra and
dōjutsu

powers
 to
Kakashi
 after his body had been turned to ashes.

Jūgo
 was able to transfer natural energy to someone thanks to his clan's
unique ability
.

Tailed beasts
 are also able to freely share their chakra with whoever they choose, and as
Kurama
 has noted, it is a less complicated process for them than it is for humans.

Samehada
 was able to absorb and transfer chakra to its wielder. It was also able to transfer chakra from Kisame back to Killer B.

Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki
 was the first user of this technique to
connect all humans
 living in the earth and gave the chakra to humanity besides his immediate family.
 Hagoromo also used this technique inside of Naruto and Sasuke who are the reincarnations of Asura and Indra. He gave the power to them to defeat Madara. While using this technique, a unique entity appears behind Hagoromo with a marking reminiscent of a third eye in its forehead.

In the anime, if the
Aburame
 member has proper control, the
kikaichū
 are also shown able to transfer their accumulated chakra to others targets, replenishing them.

In the anime, the
Magaki Group
 uses this technique in a different way. First
Nangō
 sends his chakra to
Benten
 and
Chūshin
, and then both of them send it along with its own to
Akaboshi
, greatly enhancing the power of his techniques.
 He is able to shatter a barrier easily with his increased chakra.

References