The chakra pathway system.



The
Chakra Pathway System
 (
経絡系
,
Keirakukei
,
English TV:
 Chakra Network,
literally meaning:

Meridian
 System) is a term used to describe the points within the body that channel
chakra
 through it. Simply put they serve the same function for chakra as blood vessels do for blood. Along the chakra pathways, there are 361 nodes called
tenketsu
 that control the flow of chakra like circuit breakers, and within those tenketsu are
Eight Gates
 which control body function and strain levels.

Overview

Chakra Pathways interweave each organ to transfer chakra...
...using their connection to every cell and protein, drawing out its physical energy.
1/2

The chakra pathway system is enmeshed within the body, transporting chakra through the body and each organ as the circulatory system does blood. The system is involved in the creation of chakra itself as well, as every cell and protein in the body are connected to this pathway system by a capillary which draws out the cell's
physical energy
 and is refined into chakra by several organs, notably the heart.
 If the chakra flow to a section of the body is blocked or severed by techniques such as the
Gentle Fist
,
Chakra Scalpel
, or
Bloody Mist Sword Art: Bone Mutilation
, then that portion of the body will be unable to release any chakra from any of the tenketsu.
Neji Hyūga
 was shocked that
Naruto Uzumaki
 was still able to stand after being hit with
Eight Trigrams Sixty-Four Palms
 as his body should have been in a virtually quadriplegic state.

Understanding this system is the key to the
Hyūga clan
's
Gentle Fist

fighting style
 which forces chakra into an opponent's chakra pathway system. Proper application uses the system as a conductor sending harmful chakra directly to vulnerable vital organs. As there is no way to train a person's organs to resist physical or energy attack this method of fighting is extremely effective.

Though Neji and more advanced users are known for attacking tenketsu, basic Gentle Fist is also extremely powerful as the chakra forced into the chakra pathways need not be specific as it affects everything in its vicinity. By using Gentle Fist, Neji was able to damage
Hinata
's heart and the surrounding area to the extent that she was still not fully recuperated a month later.

Extreme techniques can sever these connections...
...fatally incapacitating opponents, removing access to their chakra as they die.
1/2

Naruto's
Wind Release: Rasenshuriken
 destroys the chakra pathway system by severing every cell's connection to it, preventing the target - and to a lesser extent, the arm that used the jutsu - from creating chakra. The damage inflicted cannot be repaired with any
Medical Ninjutsu
 whatsoever, which not only left the enemy crippled and dying, but also threatened to destroy Naruto's ability to mould chakra if he continued to use it as a close ranged melee attack.
 Naruto would eventually overcome this weakness by learning to throw the Rasenshuriken, preventing his arm from being affected.

Trivia

The heart is implied to be especially important for chakra production in this system. The organ is shown when the chakra pathway system is first explained,
 and:

Taking the hearts
 of other shinobi allows
Kakuzu
 to gain both their chakra and
elemental affinity
 as his own. This lets him produce high-level jutsu of any basic nature, something that isn't ordinarily possible.

Deidara's
C0
 uses the mouth on his chest that's connected to his heart's chakra pathways.
 Upon feeding it
Explosive Clay
, he can produce a 10km-wide explosion at the cost of his own life.

The heart is also the location of the Eighth Gate, the opening of which
unleashes
 the user's entire chakra capacity and results in their death.

References

See Also

Chakra

Tenketsu