This is chapter 2 of the
Sasuke Retsuden
 manga.

Summary

Sasuke
 and the other prisoners watch as
Menō
 feasts on an escaping prisoner until
Zansūru
 tells them to get to work. As Sasuke begins digging at the prisoners' worksite, he is joined by one of his cellmates,
Jiji
. Jiji isn't as diligent about the work as Sasuke is, only making an effort to dig when the prison's guards are nearby. Even from this light work, however, Jiji manages to injure himself. He takes solace in the fact that this will allow him to visit the infirmary again, where there is a beautiful new doctor who happens to be single. Sasuke asks how he knows she's single, to which Jiji explains that she lacks a wedding ring; it's a local custom Sasuke is unfamiliar with.

That night, Sasuke is invited to play
Cee-lo
 with another of his cellmates,
Penjira
. After thinking it over, Sasuke agrees,
making a gem
 to use as a wager. In place of the cigarettes that Penjira intends to use as his own wager, Sasuke asks that he instead do a favour for Sasuke if he loses, to be specified afterwards. Penjira agrees. Using
Wind Release
, Sasuke secretly manipulates the game's dice so that he wins on the first roll. Penjira is convinced Sasuke cheated, but is pressured by Jiji to admit defeat. As his favour, Sasuke asks that Penjira cover for him while he leaves their cell. Penjira pleads with Sasuke not to go and Jiji warns that Sasuke will be killed if he's discovered out at night without permission, but Sasuke leaves anyway.

Sasuke suspects that Menō is a
summon
 being controlled by Zansūru, but is unsure how Zansūru could be controlling Menō for such long periods of time. To find out the answer, he locates Menō and attempts to place a
genjutsu
 on him. Menō is unaffected and attacks Sasuke. Sasuke is confused that his genjutsu doesn't work and decides to escape so as not to leave evidence of a fight. Menō is too fast for him to outrun, however, forcing Sasuke to
make
 a dagger that he uses to cut off some of Menō's claws. Menō retreats and Sasuke worries over the severity of the injuries he inflicted. He is therefore surprised when he sees Menō is unharmed the next day, his missing claw restored.

Sasuke is confronted by Zansūru, who is aware that Sasuke attacked Menō the night before. With his cover blown, Sasuke tries to place a genjutsu on Zansūru. Zansūru is unaffected, which Sasuke, on closer inspection, notices to be because of Zansūru's glass eye. Zansūru compliments Sasuke for his obvious skill as a
shinobi
, but insists he will never manage to wrest control of Menō from him.