This is chapter 1 of the
Sasuke Retsuden
 manga.

Summary

A sick
Naruto Uzumaki
 tries to stop
Sasuke Uchiha
 from leaving
Konohagakure
, but Sasuke ignores his pleas. In the distant
Land of Redaku
, Sasuke asks the locals about the
Sage of Six Paths
, but most people are unfamiliar with the Sage.
Lyla
 overhears his conversation and suggests that he ask her mother,
Kail
. When they arrive at Kail's shop, however, they are informed that the shop has just been robbed. Sasuke catches up to the thieves using
Amenotejikara
 and then captures them with
Genjutsu: Sharingan
; Lyla and the thieves are confused by Sasuke's abilities, but Kail correctly guesses that Sasuke is a
shinobi
. The thieves are turned over to local law enforcement, who will take them to the Land of Redaku's prison, the
Astronomy Research Institute
.

Kail retrieves her late husband's wedding ring from the thieves' bag of stolen goods, and then turns to Sasuke, believing he intends to propose to Lyla. Sasuke corrects her, saying he already has a
wife
, and explains he's seeking information about the Sage of Six Paths: the Sage once suffered from the same illness that Naruto now has, and Sasuke hopes to find out how the Sage was cured in case it can also help Naruto. Lyla doesn't know anything about illnesses, but believes the Sage has some connection with the Astronomy Research Institute. Sasuke asks how to get there.

Two weeks after being captured by Sasuke, the thieves continue to toil at the Astronomy Research Institute, spending all day digging for some unknown purpose. When they spot Sasuke among a group of new prisoners, the thieves attack him, but he easily defeats them. The prison guards attempt to punish Sasuke for causing a scene, but the Institute's Director,
Zansūru
, vouches for Sasuke's innocence. One of the thieves later approaches Sasuke during breakfast and suggests that they team up to escape; the thick morning mists will give them a good chance of evading
Menō
. Sasuke declines, explaining that he has business within the Institute. The thief, frustrated by Sasuke's answer, resolves to escape on his own. As Sasuke joins the other prisoners after breakfast on their way to the digsite, they see Menō feasting on the thief's body.