This is chapter 5 of the
Sasuke Retsuden
 manga.

Summary

Sasuke
 reads a note from
Sakura
 with her findings about
Hoshinarabe
; the card "Bonfire", for example, corresponds to a constellation visible in the ninth month. That night,
Jiji
 accurately predicts that
Menō
 will pass by their cell. Using a stick from a tree that he's seen Menō rest under, Jiji lures Menō close enough to pet and invites his cellmates to join him. Initially, only
Ganno
 is willing, but
Penjira
 decides to also try when he sees how docile Menō is. As he approaches, his foot slightly leaves the boundary of the cell, technically meeting the definition of escaping. Sasuke yells, but it is Jiji who pulls Penjira away from Menō's attacking jaws.

In the struggle, a lantern is knocked over, setting Menō on fire and causing him to run off in pain. Penjira thanks Jiji for saving him as Sasuke reignites the lantern, While he does so, he realises why the Hoshinarabe cards were familiar to him: the ninth card is not a bonfire, but rather the
Nine-Tails
. He shares this with Sakura the next day and they use the information to identify the other cards' subjects. When they finish, Sakura informs Sasuke that a messenger for the
Land of Redaku
's
Prime Minister
 is about to meet with
Zansūru
. If they impersonate the messenger, that will give them a chance to question Zansūru undercover.

Sakura intercepts the messenger,
Fundaru
, and offers to guide him to Zansūru's office. Fundaru reports that he is supposed to ask about "progress", though he doesn't know what it pertains to. Sakura continues to make conversation until finally leading Fundaru to an isolated room, where she knocks him out. Sakura
transforms
 into Fundaru and Sasuke transforms into Fundaru's staff. Once inside Zansūru's office, Sakura distracts him so that she can roll Sasuke into the adjoining room unnoticed. Sasuke locates a door leading to a secret basement and begins
creating
 a key to unlock it; Sakura draws out conversation with Zansūru using information from Fundaru in order to give Sasuke time to work.

Zansūru soon becomes impatient and demands to know what the Prime Minister's message is. Sakura asks about progress, and Zansūru replies that they can mobilise within a few days of receiving the Prime Minister's instruction to proceed. Sakura asks for more information, but Zansūru is not forthcoming, instead inquiring about the missing staff. At the same moment, Sasuke unlocks the door, causing a sound; Sakura taps the real staff on the ground to keep Zansūru from noticing. Sasuke quickly descends to the basement where he discovers Zansūru's secret: piles of rocks and dozens of chickens. Sasuke is confused.