This is chapter 3 of the
Sasuke Retsuden
 manga.

Summary

At
Zansūru
's instruction, the prison guards assault
Sasuke
 throughout the day, punishment for his attack on
Menō
 the night before. Sasuke doesn't fight back against the guards, instead taking the opportunity to steal a red cloth from one of them. After his cellmates go to bed, Sasuke ties the cloth to his hand and leaves the cell; because of the cloth, Menō will believe he has permission to be out at night and will leave him alone. Shortly afterwards, he finds another prisoner whose own red cloth has been stolen by bullies. Sasuke gives the man his red cloth so that the man can return to his cell safely, just as Menō arrives.

While Menō attacks him, Sasuke tries yet again to place a
genjutsu
 on him, but it continues to have no effect. He also confirms that all of Menō's injuries from their previous fight have vanished, which he assumes to be due to a powerful healing ability. After Menō manages to scratch his cheek, Sasuke notices his vision and movement gradually worsening, presumably a toxin native to the region that Menō's claws are coated with. Sasuke flees from Menō, but soon finds himself unable to move further. He is found and saved by his wife,
Sakura
, who is now working as the prison's doctor.

In the infirmary, Sasuke questions Sakura for being here, worrying if something has happened to their daughter,
Sarada
. Sakura assures him that Sarada is fine and that she's come to give him a mission update: according to information found by
Kakashi Hatake
, the
Sage of Six Paths
 visited the
Astronomy Research Institute
 centuries ago, and during his stay he saw a meteorite pass through the sky. By cutting the meteor in two, the Sage obtained
polar particles
 and was cured of his illness. Some of the remaining particles he hid in "the sky that fell to earth", and Sakura believes if they can find where that is that they'll be able to cure
Naruto
 of the same illness. Sasuke thanks Sakura for the information, but encourages her to return to
Konoha
, concerned by Menō's immunity to genjutsu and Zansūru's schemes. She refuses, believing Sasuke will need help.

They are interrupted by the arrival of
Jiji
, who is seeking treatment for an injury received at the prison's dig site. Sasuke hides, only to reveal himself in order to stop Jiji from flirtatiously touching Sakura's hair. Jiji is surprised by Sasuke's presence, and is even more surprised when he is told that Sasuke and Sakura are married. Sakura explains that working in the infirmary was her only chance of seeing Sasuke, since the prison forbids visitors. Jiji accepts this as logical. While Sasuke and Jiji return to their cell, Sasuke asks that his relationship with Sakura remain a secret. Jiji promises not to tell. Sasuke asks him about if he knows anything about the polar particles' hiding place. Jiji speculates one of the prison library's astronomical documents might be useful, and suggests asking
Penjira
, who works there.