This article is about the jutsu.  For other uses, see
Chibaku Tensei (disambiguation)
.

Chibaku Tensei
 is a technique used through the
Deva Path
 of the
Rinnegan
.

Overview

Users create a black sphere between their hands that they hurl into the sky. When the sphere is activated, it generates powerful attractive force, pulling everything in the vicinity to it until a large
satellite
 is created;
 users control how large the satellite becomes.
 Creating a satellite apparently requires a great deal of
chakra
, such that
Nagato
, when attempting to use it through his
Six Paths of Pain
, must first bring the Deva Path close to his location so that he can channel his chakra to it more effectively, although it was done in his heavily exhausted state.

Chibaku Tensei is most often used to restrain targets, drawing them in during the satellite's creation and trapping them beneath the mounds of rubble.
 When used to capture tailed beasts, the resulting satellites are known as "Tailed Beast Sealing Stones" (
尾獣封印の岩
,
Bijū Fūin no Iwa
).
 Only
Naruto Uzumaki
, by entering a near-
Tailed Beast Mode
, has been known to break free from one.
 Because of how difficult it is to escape from Chibaku Tensei, the best way to counter it is to destroy the black sphere early on in the formation process. In order to penetrate the initial layers of rubble, users should use their most powerful attacks, such as the
Tailed Beast Ball
 or
Wind Release: Rasenshuriken
. Actually aiming at the black sphere is not really necessary, as all attacks will be pulled towards it.






Sasuke's multiple Chibaku Tensei.



When performed by Sasuke Uchiha, he does not use the typical black sphere, instead gathering rubble around each of his
immobilised
 targets;
 this is similar to the
Six Paths — Chibaku Tensei
. Once the satellites are formed, Sasuke is able to move them remotely.

Madara Uchiha
 is also shown creating multiple satellites at a time, each with its own black sphere. Rather than use the satellites to restrain targets, Madara uses them as large projectiles that he drops on his opponents.

Video Games

Chibaku Tensei is a common move in
Naruto
 video games:

In
Naruto Shippūden: Shinobi Rumble
, Pain generates a moderately sized sphere of debris overhead, then thrusts his arms downward, sending it crashing into the ground like a meteor. In the game it is called "
Six Paths Technique
" rather than Chibaku Tensei. An enhanced, "Full Throttle" version of the technique called "Six Paths Technique: Collapse" (
六道の術・崩壊
,
Rikudō no Jutsu: Hōkai
) can also be performed.

In
Ultimate Ninja Storm 2
, Pain uses Chibaku Tensei to summon a whirlwind of boulders to protect himself against attacks. He can also launch the boulders individually as a form of attack.

In
Ultimate Ninja Impact
, Pain creates the planetary body and brings it down on his opponents. He also uses this as his Awakening, where he summons a whirlwind of boulders as a defensive system and an offensive system at the same time.

In
Ultimate Ninja Storm 3
, Nagato uses this technique to imprison his opponent, and then fires a
chakra blast
 which goes through its core, causing a massive explosion.

In
Ultimate Ninja Storm Revolution
, as part of Pain and
Konan
's
collaboration
, Pain uses this technique to trap his opponent and then Konan lines the debris with
explosive tags
. Konan then sends a single origami bird which causes a massive explosion.

In
Ultimate Ninja Storm 4
,
Rinnegan
 Sasuke pierces the opponent with the
black flames
, traps him within Chibaku Tensei, and then
destroys it with Chidori Kagutsuchi
 via his
Complete Body — Susanoo
. His
The Last
 version also uses the technique as part of his
Chidori: Star Crusher
. And during the boss battle against Naruto and Sasuke, Madara is able to create a gargantuan version of Chibaku Tensei by merging multiple planetoids into one with the
Wood Release
.

Trivia

Despite Madara using this technique in the manga, he is not listed as a user in
Jin no Sho
.

See Also

Banshō Ten'in

Shinra Tensei

Tengai Shinsei

True: Chibaku Tensei

References