This article is about the title. For the chapter, see
The Child of the Prophecy!!
.

The
Children of the Prophecy
 (
予言の子達
,
Yogen no Ko-tachi
) is a title for two people who were foretold to hold the fate of the world in their hands. These two, due to being the
reincarnations
 of
Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki
's sons
Indra
 and
Asura
 Ōtsutsuki, were predicted to complete the
sealing
 of
Kaguya Ōtsutsuki
 and save the world.
Naruto Uzumaki
, the current reincarnation of Asura, and
Sasuke Uchiha
, the current reincarnation of Indra, were bestowed with
powerful

abilities
 from Hagoromo as well as
the

keys
 to the seal. In the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, Naruto and Sasuke successfully sealed Kaguya and undid the
Infinite Tsukuyomi
, thus rescuing the world and fulfilling the prophecy.

Great Toad Sage's Interpretation





The Great Toad Sage tells Jiraiya about the "
Child of the Prophecy
".



The
Child of the Prophecy
 (
予言の子
,
Yogen no Ko
) is a title conceived by the
Great Toad Sage
. He foretold that the Child of the Prophecy would be a student of
Jiraiya
 that would bring a great revolution to the world of the ninja. Jiraiya's actions would determine if this revolution would be for the world's salvation or the world's destruction. Jiraiya believed, at different times, that the following characters could be the Child of the Prophecy:

Nagato

Minato Namikaze

Naruto Uzumaki

While in
Amegakure
 during the
Second Shinobi World War
, Jiraiya met Nagato, a boy that possessed the Rinnegan. Because the fabled Sage of Six Paths, a figure who was said to have saved the world in the distant past, also possessed the Rinnegan, Jiraiya believed that Nagato was the Child of the Prophecy. He trained Nagato and encouraged him to find peace for the world.

Jiraiya acquired his own
genin
 team before he met the Ame Orphans. Because of the natural genius of one of its members, Minato, Jiraiya suggested to Minato that he could be the Child of the Prophecy and took him as an apprentice. Minato still remembered this decades later and, during the
Nine-Tailed Demon Fox's Attack
, formed his own conclusion regarding the prophecy. He believed that
Tobi
 would bring destruction to the world, and that his son, Naruto, would save the world from Tobi. Because of this, Minato chose to seal the
Nine-Tailed Demon Fox
 into Naruto to help him face this great challenge.

Sixteen years later, Jiraiya returned to Amegakure to investigate
Akatsuki
, a criminal organisation seeking the world's destruction. When he discovered that Nagato was the leader of Akatsuki, Jiraiya, still believing Nagato to be the Child of the Prophecy, tried to kill him before he could bring about his prophesied revolution. He failed, but as he died he came to the same conclusion as Minato: that Naruto was the Child of the Prophecy, and the choice he had to make was whether or not he should give up. Choosing not to, Jiraiya revived himself through sheer willpower long enough to send clues about how to defeat Pain back to Konohagakure.

At the conclusion of the
Pain's assault
 on Konoha, wherein Nagato gave his life to help Naruto achieve peace, as the Great Toad Sage
watched
 on, he realised that both he and Jiraiya had been wrong and that the "Child of the Prophecy" did not refer to a single individual, but to both Nagato and Naruto who were trying to save the world.

During the Fourth Shinobi World War when Naruto released the rest of the tailed beasts from Tobi's control, Kurama remembered the final words of the Sage of Six Paths about an individual who would reunite the tailed beasts and put them on the right path. Kurama stated that this person was Naruto and the rest of the beasts agreed.

Trivia

The individuals whom at one time were thought to be the Child of Prophecy by the Great Toad Sage were also regarded as the "
Saviour of this World
".