The
Chimera Technique
 is a kinjutsu that was developed by
Hiruko
, a
missing-nin
 of
Konohagakure
, in order to compensate for his lack of natural special abilities.

Usage

It was originally meant to combine separate living bodies of organisms into one combined organism bearing the original characteristics of the organisms, and therefore create a synthetic body. After seeing
Kakashi
 bearing the
Sharingan
, Hiruko uses the technique to integrate the bodies of others with his own, allowing him to obtain any
kekkei genkai
 they possess, as well as physicality, other special traits, and absorb their chakra. The technique is also used by Hiruko and his followers to create formidable creatures which bear the traits of multiple animals. Hiruko has used this technique to steal four kekkei genkai:
Storm
,
Dark
,
Steel
, and
Swift Releases
.

Overview

The maximum number of kekkei genkai that the Chimera Technique can absorb alone is four, which even so is an incomplete absorption, and requires certain conditions to acquire the fifth, as well as fully absorb the previous four. These are the three conditions: "Heaven," "Earth," and "Human." These correspond with the solar eclipse, Mount Shumisen and the five kekkei genkai-bearing human sacrifices, respectively. It's likely that more kekkei genkai can be absorbed after achieving the conditions listed above. When assimilating victims, Hiruko's body exudes a large mass of deep blue, viscous fluid that covers a large area. While assimilating victims, he can use the fluid to attack enemies with gelatinous, reforming (and rebounding) extensions. Once the five bodies have been completely absorbed, the person will have immortality and mastery over the five elements.

It should be noted that the technique can be stopped from the inside out by using a dimension-manipulating technique such as
Kamui
. Additionally, the technique requires body modification, due to the body requiring space for the user to assimilate targets, as seen by the large scars and staples in Hiruko's chest and sides, and leaves his body rather emaciated, with a larger, unhinged jaw and shrivelled teeth. The hollowed body space can also be a potential weak spot until it is filled by the assimilated victim.

While Hiruko's main usage of this technique is to merge others into himself to gain kekkei genkai, his subordinates had used it to merge several creatures into chimeric creatures modified with powerful abilities, such as
a pair of dogs
 with launchers and
a bird
 that can rain
explosive feathers
. They also use the technique to merge with the creatures to increase their own combat efficiency: Ichi has used this technique to merge with the snake he summons, Ni used it to merge with her
lion-like beast
, and San was able to use it to merge with Ichi and Ni, becoming a chimera beast that Hiruko summoned later to deal with the
Konoha 11
. The beast San created bears Ichi's snakes as its tails, Ni's beast's flamethrower breath and lion face, and San's bird's wings, with its "face" on the beast's back near the wings.

Influence

A
chimera
 is a mythological creature composed of the parts of multiple animals, and is also a
genetic term
 for hybrid animals with more than one DNA pattern. This is likely a reference to the fact that Hiruko developed the technique as a way to adopt the genetically inherited abilities of other shinobi, regardless of his own bloodline.

Trivia

The technique's name is a pun, similar to certain techniques of
Kumogakure
 ninja, where it has an
English name given kanji
 (glossed with katakana) that somewhat match the pronunciation.

During the movie, Hiruko can use the kekkei genkai without needing to assimilate the victims completely, but in order to gain full access to those powers, as well as the fifth and immortality, he needed the special ceremony to assimilate all five.

See Also

Earth Grudge Fear

Casualty Puppet