This article uses
Creative Commons licensed
 content from
revision 116078223
 of
Wikipedia
's
Chiyo
 article.

The list of authors can be seen in the
page history
 there.

This article is about the Sunagakure elder. For the anime-only character, see
Chiyo
.

Chiyo
 (
チヨ
) was a retired counsellor of
Sunagakure
. She was also a famed
puppeteer
, the leader of Sunagakure's
Puppet Brigade
, and a
medical-nin
.

Background






A younger Chiyo.



Chiyo, often called
Honoured Grandmother Chiyo
 (
チヨバア様
,
Chiyo-baasama
) by the Sunagakure villagers, was the village's poison,
 and puppet expert. She and her brother
Ebizō
 were highly revered in Sunagakure and were known as the
Honoured Siblings
 (
御姉弟
,
Gokyōdai
).
 Chiyo was very knowledgeable when it came to handling poisons and used her skills often during the
Second Shinobi World War
, only to be countered numerous times by
Tsunade
's medical expertise. This caused Chiyo to hold a grudge against Tsunade, who she came to call "that slug-girl" (
あのナメクジ娘
,
Ano Namekuji-musume
), or the "Slug Queen" in the English dub.
 During the war, she also fought
Hanzō
 and his
salamander
 numerous times, learning how frequently it can use its venom and eventually developing an antidote against it.






Chiyo during Gaara's birth.



Chiyo was responsible for sealing the
One-Tailed Shukaku
 inside of
Gaara
 under the orders of the
Fourth Kazekage
,
 noting that of the Kazekage's
three children
, Gaara was the only compatible one.
 Some time after this, Chiyo and her brother removed themselves from the affairs of Sunagakure and spent their time fishing together, where Chiyo would play jokes on her brother by pretending she had died just to scare him.






Chiyo and her family.



Chiyo also expressed a desire to kill
Sakumo Hatake
 to avenge the death of
her son
 and
daughter-in-law
, which left her grandson
Sasori
 orphaned.
 After that, Chiyo tried to help Sasori ease the pain by caring for him and teaching him the
Puppet Technique
. Chiyo would later watch Sasori create his
first puppets
 that would resemble his own parents. This was meant to fill the void of his parents dying. In the anime, while still a child, Sasori became very instrumental in the development of puppets and poisons for the village, regularly filling orders from Chiyo herself. As Chiyo watched Sasori continue to immerse himself in puppets, Chiyo became increasingly concerned for her grandson. However, she instead chose to remain indifferent, focusing most of her attention on helping the village. One day,
Komushi
, a young shinobi and one of Sasori's only friends, was badly injured during a mission, costing him his right arm. Demonstrating a new style of puppet ninjutsu, Sasori replaced Komushi's arm with a fully movable puppet arm as a
prosthetic limb
, coated with Sasori's newest poison. Later, Komushi died from accidentally ingesting that poison. As Chiyo's concerns continued to grow, she began noticing a pattern with Sasori and decided to investigate. To her horror, she discovered that Sasori had taken Komushi's corpse and turned it into a
human puppet
.

Later, to Chiyo's dismay, Sasori left Sunagakure and abandoned his parent puppets, showing that he gave up on them.

Eventually, Chiyo and her brother retired, disconnecting themselves from the outside world as they sat in their residence fishing all day, while remaining apathetic to all the happenings beyond their quiet lives. Chiyo's only wish was to see her grandson one more time.

Personality

As a veteran, Chiyo and her brother
Ebizō
 possessed great wisdom, such that
Baki
 requested their assistance in the village's greatest danger. However, they had little motivation to serve Sunagakure any longer, as they retired and felt that the next generation should look out for themselves. The siblings were rather disappointed when the village was showing to be so reliant on others. She was also pessimistic because she believed Konoha would send a lower-class medical shinobi to heal Kankurō's poison, only to be proven wrong when Sakura, one of the top-notch medical shinobi in Konoha was sent. After spending time with Team 7, her views quickly changed and with her last breath, she prayed Naruto and Gaara could lead their villages to a better relationship with a true alliance, not one for show.

Chiyo could be very mischievous, as she enjoyed playing dead or acting senile to fool others. Chiyo would often also jump to conclusions as seen when she attacked
Kakashi Hatake
 because she mistook him for his father Sakumo.

Chiyo loved her grandson,
Sasori
, a great deal despite how much he had fallen, and was fully willing to grant life to the puppets that he created, at the cost of her own; this was said to be her dream. In fact, it was only because of Sasori's involvement in Akatsuki that she was willing to grant Baki's request for assistance. This love also led her to bear a grudge against Sakumo Hatake for killing
Sasori's parents
, and as such, she initially tried to kill his son Kakashi, mistaking him for his father. However, in the anime, it was shown that Chiyo's love for her family was also split between it as well as her devotion to the village and her views as a ninja being detached. This was seen from her hesitance to take a simple family picture.

Chiyo showed care and respect for
Sakura Haruno
, despite the latter being a disciple of Chiyo's
rival
. She also showed regret and remorse for sealing the
One-Tailed Shukaku
 into
Gaara
, and gave her life to revive the latter as a way of repentance. While retirement led Chiyo to become detached from the outside world, she admitted to Sasori she had too many regrets in life to die in peace.

Upon being resurrected during the Fourth Shinobi World War, she disapproved of the user of the
Impure World Reincarnation
 for playing with life and death.

Appearance

Chiyo was an elderly woman with black eyes and greyed hair tied in a bun; in her fight with Sasori, she let her hair loose. She wore the traditional Sunagakure outfit which consisted of a dark-coloured, loose fitting outfit with a poncho-like top.

Abilities






Chiyo manipulates the samurai corpses.



Despite her old age, Chiyo was still a very powerful kunoichi, being well-respected throughout Suna. Even her rival, Tsunade, held great respect for her. With Sakura's assistance, she could defeat Sasori, a powerful member of
Akatsuki
. Her skills were great enough to be chosen for
reincarnation
 by
Kabuto Yakushi
 for the
Fourth Shinobi World War
. Chiyo was also one of the few reincarnations that was never sealed by the enemy, only being stopped after
Itachi Uchiha
 had Kabuto release the Impure World Reincarnation.

Ninjutsu

Puppet Mastery






Chiyo using White Secret Technique: The Chikamatsu Collection of Ten Puppets.



Chiyo was a renowned master of the
Puppet Technique
, famous for her abilities in both creating and controlling
puppets
, to the point of being an invaluable icon for Sunagakure. She passed these skills onto her grandson, Sasori, claiming that the technique was traditional in their family. She modified
two normal unarmed puppets
 to have intense battle capabilities, to the point where they were capable of standing up against the
Third Kazekage
 (known as the strongest Kage in the history of Sunagakure) who was converted into a
Human Puppet
 by Sasori. These puppets were equipped with
wire strings
 that extend from both of the puppets hands. When connected they have the ability to cut through most things, including Sasori's
Thousand Hands Manipulation Force
. She also could use the
Puppet Performance: Skilful Achievement with a Human Body
 technique, which allowed her to effectively control a human if she had no puppets left in her arsenal; she was highly skilled with this tactic, as she was able to fight effectively during the Fourth Shinobi War using only
samurai
 as a substitute for puppets. In the anime, she also showed the ability to control up to ten living people at once with this skill, each of them with only one finger per puppet — a skill which signified her as a master puppeteer.
 She had great skill with
chakra threads
, as she could place them onto other puppets without her opponent noticing and suppressing them to the point that they became invisible, as well as using them to
control and fire weapons
.

Like Sasori, Chiyo modified a part of her body and turned her right arm into a mechanical one. She normally kept it outfitted with a
chakra shield
, and could replace it with any puppet arm if something were to happen to it. She also installed this shield on the Mother and Father puppets.






Chiyo using Mechanical Light Shield Block.



Her strongest puppets, however, were the full set of 10 puppets known as the
Chikamatsu Collection
, created by the first puppet user,
Monzaemon Chikamatsu
, and that she could control at the same time. These puppets were extremely powerful, using teamwork to perform powerful attacks, and were equipped with powerful techniques such as the
Three Jewels Suction Crushing
 and the
Sealing Technique: Lion Closing Roar
. With the assistance of Sakura, Chiyo's ten puppets were able to overpower Sasori's one hundred puppets, though in the anime, most of the Chikamatsu Collection was destroyed in the process.

Medical Ninjutsu

Chiyo was a highly capable
medical-nin
, and while having some
healing skills
, she mainly used her medical knowledge as a
poison
 expert, which allowed her to create powerful poisons that in her entire life have only been countered by Tsunade, who is herself renowned as the world's greatest medical-nin. Likewise, she has stated that she used to fight with Hanzō all the time; allowing her to know the time it takes for his salamander to produce its poison, and the antidote to counter the poisonous gas. She also created a
life-giving technique
, one that would result in her own death if it were used, that she wanted to use for Sasori in order to give life to his puppet parents.

Other Skills






Chiyo demonstrating her taijutsu skills.



While preferring to use her puppets in battle, Chiyo has shown to be skilled in
taijutsu
, as seen during her brief scuffle with Naruto and his clone,
 and during her battle against Kankurō and his puppet in the anime.
 She possessed advanced knowledge of
fūinjutsu
, being the one responsible for sealing Shukaku into Gaara. She also has some skill in countering
genjutsu
, having faced members of the
Uchiha clan
 in the past.
 In the anime, she kept a toy-like, wind-up mechanical bird sealed in a scroll, and used it to deviver messages.

Stats

Databook

Ninjutsu

Taijutsu

Genjutsu

Intelligence

Strength

Speed

Stamina

Hand seals

Total

Third

5

4.5

3.5

5

3.5

4

2

4.5

32

Part II

Kazekage Rescue Mission

Main article:
Kazekage Rescue Mission






Chiyo and Ebizō make their début.



After Gaara is kidnapped and
Kankurō
 is poisoned by
Sasori
,
Baki
 requests that Chiyo help in curing the poison. Chiyo initially refuses, no longer concerned with the fate of the village, but Sasori's involvement persuades her into helping. In spite of this, Sasori's poison is beyond her expertise to cure. Much to her own dismay, she admits that Tsunade would be the only one capable of healing him. Even with such an admission, she is not willing to contact Tsunade, believing firmly that asking other villages for help makes their own look weaker.

When Team 7 arrives after learning of Gaara's kidnapping, Chiyo instantly attacks
Kakashi Hatake
 under the mistaken impression that he is his father:
Konoha's White Fang
, who had killed Sasori's parents.
Naruto
 blocks the attack and
Ebizō
 clears up the confusion (to Kakashi's great relief), after which Chiyo plays the attack off as senility. With that over,
Sakura
 is able to heal Kankurō, much to Chiyo's surprise. Once Kankurō is healed,
Team 7
 prepares to go after the
Akatsuki
 to rescue Gaara, and Chiyo joins them as an adviser from Sunagakure. She explained to Naruto what a tailed beast was, and confessed to sealing the One-Tail into Gaara. When Team 7 encountered
Itachi Uchiha
, she remained in the rear in order to cancel any genjutsu that was cast on her comrades.






Chiyo using Sakura to fight Sasori.



After reaching the Akatsuki hideout, Team 7 splits up to pursue the only two members present; Kakashi and Naruto go after
Deidara
, leaving Chiyo and Sakura to fight against Sasori. The battle goes in their favour at first, with Chiyo controlling Sakura to help her avoid Sasori's attacks and smash his "puppet armour",
Hiruko
. The destruction of his puppet forces Sasori to reveal himself, which also reveals the fact that he hasn't aged a day since departing the village twenty years earlier. Now unmasked, Sasori brings out the first of his human puppets: the
Third Kazekage
. This puppet is decidedly more powerful than Hiruko, and Chiyo is forced to summon Sasori's mother and father puppets just to fend off its powerful attacks. Even with the two puppets, Chiyo is overwhelmed by the Third's
Iron Sand
 techniques, which prove to be the puppet's biggest weakness, leaving Sakura to be the one to destroy the Kazekage puppet.






Sasori trapped in Chiyo's Lion-Headed Kannon.



Down another puppet, Sasori reveals the secret of his youth: he has converted himself into a puppet. The only living part of him remaining is his heart, making him difficult to kill. Since neither she nor Sakura can destroy his puppet body, Chiyo summons the
Chikamatsu Collection
. To mock the summoning, Sasori summons
one hundred of his puppets
, a feat only possible thanks to his unique body. In the ensuing battle, Chiyo destroys many of Sasori's puppets and vice versa. Both collections seem to be about equal in power because, despite the fact that Sasori's overwhelm Chiyo's in numbers, the quality and teamwork of her puppets far surpass his. She is wounded and poisoned by one of Sasori's puppets that slashes her right shoulder, but the puppet was quickly disposed of by Chiyo's puppet and she continued to fight while enduring the pain.

Using a special
chakra-sealing orb
 given to her by Chiyo, Sakura tries to seal Sasori's
Chakra Pathway System
, only to catch his empty puppet body. Sasori, having ditched it mere moments before, simply goes to a spare body and tries to stab Chiyo with a poisoned sword. Sakura takes the blow in her place, giving Chiyo a chance to stab Sasori through the heart with his parents' puppets in the form of a hug. Before Sasori dies, he insists that at least Sakura cannot be saved. Chiyo disagrees, and uses a special
life force-transferring technique
 to heal her. While this would normally be fatal for the average shinobi, Sakura was not quite dead, thus Chiyo does not die in the process. After Sasori dies, Chiyo speculates that he had actually taken the attack willingly, since he simply wanted his parents to hug him.






Chiyo's last moments of life.



After reuniting with Kakashi and Naruto, who have succeeded in retrieving Gaara, Sakura pronounces Gaara dead, causing Naruto to break down in tears. Although Chiyo tries to calm him down, Naruto lashes out and blames her for his death, saying that if she had not sealed Shukaku within Gaara he would not have died. Knowing that he is right, Chiyo tries to revive Gaara to atone for making him a jinchūriki. Although she initially has too little chakra left to do so, Naruto donates some of his own to help finish the resurrection. With Gaara's revival, Chiyo realises that the future of Konoha and the Sand will be much better than things were back in her day, and then dies peacefully, with her view of the world changed thanks to Naruto.

Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation

Main article:
Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation






Chiyo is recruited as back-up.



In preparation for the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, Chiyo is reincarnated by
Kabuto Yakushi
 to fight against the
Allied Shinobi Forces
. In the anime, while he thought she was a valuable reincarnation, it was revealed that he mistakenly acquired her DNA instead of Sasori's.
 After being mobilised, she becomes part of the group that
Chūkichi
 requests assistance from, alongside
Kimimaro
 and
Hanzō
. With this, Chiyo notes that the technique had been improved since
Tobirama Senju
's time and that the one who reincarnated them must be something else, to bind so many souls at once.

Encountering the remnants of the
Surprise Attack Division
, where
Deidara
 was imprisoned, Chiyo compliments
Kankurō
 on defeating
Sasori
. When the opposition begins their retreat with her group in pursuit, she swears to take revenge against whoever reincarnated her, while concerned about being embarrassed if they forced her to play dead. This results in an argument with
Hanzō
, who calls her a "
puppet hag
", to which she retorts that he was a "
big snorkel geezer
".






Chiyo faces the Fifth Division.



After Hanzō
summons
 his
salamander
 and recognising the
poisonous gas
 it exhaled, Chiyo informs Kankurō that the creature requires five minutes to generate and use the toxin, but that she knew the
antidote
, having fought with Hanzō before. Engaging the reinforcements from the
Fifth Division
 with Kimimaro the following day, Chiyo takes control of a
samurai
 to use as a puppet. In the anime, Kankurō intervened and freed the samurai from her control. By that time, learning that Kankurō has the Mother and Father puppets alongside the Scorpion puppet, Chiyo's guilt for her inability to save Sasori is brought into light. But finding good memories of her grandson along with the bad, Chiyo admits that the puppets are in good hands yet continues investing over him. Later observing the arrival of one of
Naruto
's
shadow clones
, remarking that the youth has changed in ways besides his height, Chiyo is then seemingly struck by Naruto's
Wind Release: Rasenshuriken
, but in the anime along with Kimimaro managed to dodge it before being struck.

Fourth Shinobi World War: Climax

Main article:
Fourth Shinobi World War: Climax






Chiyo's soul returns to the afterlife.



When the Impure World Reincarnation was released, Chiyo — who had still been battling the Alliance's members — was enveloped in a light of sorts before beginning to deconstruct. As her spirit ascended, she asserted that she could finally die once again as her soul returned to the
afterlife
. In the anime, Kankurō arrives in time to see the process. While he is sad to see the elderly puppet master leave once again, Chiyo acknowledges the younger Suna-nin's skill in the same art, proudly entrusting Kankurō to carry on puppetry ninjutsu and delivers one final joke by claiming she wouldn't need to play possum any longer.

Legacy

Chiyo's final moments touched many, including her longtime rival Tsunade who would remember her and her power to believe in the strength of the next generation. Also, her sacrifice brought Gaara back to life, who proved instrumental in the creation of the Allied Shinobi Forces and its victory in the Fourth Great Shinobi War.

In Other Media

Video Games

Chiyo is a playable character in the following video games:

Game name
Japanese release
English release
Naruto Mobile
2016
2016
Naruto Shippūden: Clash of Ninja Revolution 3
17 November 2009
Naruto Shippūden: Gekitō Ninja Taisen! Special
2 December 2010
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja 4
5 April 2007
24 March 2009
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja 5
20 December 2007
27 November 2009
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Blazing
14 July 2016
24 August 2016
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Heroes 3
10 December 2009
11 May 2010
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 2
21 October 2010
19 October 2010
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 3
18 April 2013
5 March 2013
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 4
4 February 2016
9 February 2016
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm Generations
23 February 2012
13 March 2012
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm Revolution
11 September 2014
16 September 2014
Naruto x Boruto: Ultimate Ninja Storm Connections
16 November 2023
17 November 2023
Naruto: Shinobi Collection
2014
Naruto: Shinobi Collection Shippū Ranbu
27 July 2015
Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Online
14 April 2013
20 July 2016

In many of her game appearances, Chiyo uses the
Mother and Father
 puppets.

Trivia

According to the databook(s):

Chiyo's hobbies were pretending to be dead, playing senile, and fishing.

Chiyo's favourite foods were dishes with beans and potatoes. Her least favourite was
sashimi
.

Chiyo wished to fight
Sakumo Hatake
.

Chiyo's favourite phrase was "Trained by a hundred battles" (
百戦錬磨
,
Hyakusen renma
). This idiom refers to a richness in experiences gained through battling through many adversities.

Quotes

(To
Ebizō
) "
Just kidding! I was playing dead!
"

(To
Baki
 about
Konoha
) "
Improving your own village's capability should always be top priority. They are them, and we are us! True alliances are nothing more than pipe dreams. At difficult times, when you really need them, the best you get are useless foot soldiers.
"

(To Baki) "
Don't treat me like an old lady!
"

(To
Sasori
) "
Even retired and a foot in grave, I'll still take action. I've too many regrets to die yet.
"

(To
Naruto
) "
I'm happy that someone like you has appeared in the world of shinobi that we foolish old people created. Everything I've ever done was a mistake. But now, at the end, it looks like I'll finally be able to do the right thing. The Sand Village and Konoha. Their future will be much different than the way things were back in my day. That strange power of yours that Kakashi mentioned… That power will have a strong influence on the future. Become a Hokage like none before you.
"

(To
Sakura
) "
And Sakura… Next time, save the people who are dear to you, not some old hag. You and I are very similar. There aren't many girls as chivalrous as you around. You might become a kunoichi who surpasses her master.
"

(Last words to Naruto) "
Naruto… a request from an old woman. You are the only one who knows Gaara's pain… Gaara also knows your pain. Help Gaara out…
"

References