"
Clash: Kokuyō!
" (
激突、コクヨウ!!
,
Gekitotsu, Kokuyō!!
) is episode 88 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Ōnoki
 escorts the captured
Konoha

genin
 and
Akatsuchi
, keeping them from interfering with his plans. They arrive at
Iwagakure
, and Ōnoki is shocked to see remnants of battles all over the village. He asks
Kirara
 about what happened, and she instructs him to ask
Kū
 directly. Kū says all is going smoothly according to plan, and Ōnoki questions it, asking where are the villagers and why are there
Akuta
 roaming the streets. Kū claims the situation has changed drastically in his absence, that the
Fabrications
' lives already beginning to run out, and that he has secured humans from whom to harvest hearts.
Boruto
 questions Ōnoki on what he claimed had been the Fabrications' objective. Ōnoki denounces Kū's actions as the opposite of his will, as he intends to sacrifice young lives instead of saving them. Kū shows him his deterioration, but Ōnoki orders him to release those in his custody. Kū questions Ōnoki's commitment to his own plan and his willingness to sacrifice the Fabrications, and knocks him out. The other Fabrications question his action, but Kū rationalises it as Ōnoki being temporarily not in his right mind. Kū takes Ōnoki inside, orders preparations for the transplants to begin, and allows the other Fabrications to do as they please with the genin.
 They briefly discuss the Fabrications' purpose and nature, and just as the Akuta are about to attack the genin, an explosive tag kunai is thrown at them, the smoke of the explosion giving them cover to escape.
Shikadai
 calls them out and frees them, wanting to take the opportunity to leave the village while many of the Akuta are watching over captured citizens.
Kokuyō
 catches up to them and blocks their path. Shikadai wants Boruto and
Sarada
 to go after
Mitsuki
 while they deal with Kokuyō.
Akkun
 wakes up and remembers
Inojin
 being taken, and leaves to look for him. Kirara intercepts Boruto and Sarada, who know she uses
genjutsu
, Sarada activates her
Sharingan
.
Team 10
 struggles against Kokuyō, and Shikadai risks himself to let the others escape. The doctor is preparing for the transplants, and
Sekiei
 thanks Mitsuki for what he's done for them. Shikadai lures Kokuyō to a trap he had Inojin set up, hiding a source of light for after Kokuyō destroyed the ones around it, noting that as he lacks jutsu, he has no long-range attacks. Kokuyō tries forcing his way out of Shikadai's jutsu, but
Chōchō
 lands a hit first. Kokuyō hits back, but begins to crack down and deteriorate, and wishes to see how strong his opponents really are. Akkun is getting nearer to them.
Konohamaru
 finds the Akuta production site, and Mitsuki finds him. Shikadai wants to Chōchō to land another hit, and Inojin points out he's learned their strategy. Shikadai says there's another jutsu Inojin can use, but Inojin isn't sure it'll work on him. Shikadai says it's what they have. Shikadai uses himself as bait, and Inojin is able to take over Kokuyō's body with the
Mind Body Switch Technique
. Kokuyō is able to force Inojin out and dodge Chōchō's
Human Bullet Tank
. He moves to attack Inojin, but Akkun obstructs his vision, giving them another shot. Kokuyō destroys Akkun's mask when dealing with him, but receives a heavy hit from Chōchō. Kokuyō can't understand how humans endanger themselves to fight, and Shikadai explains they make up with other kinds of strength, such as strength of heart. Kokuyō denies having such strength as he lacks a heart, but Shikadai points out Inojin was able to take him over. Kokuyō ponders it as he dies. Akkun manages to say Inojin's name before perishing. Inojin tries to downplay Akkun's death while crying. Kirara has paralysed Boruto and Sarada with her genjutsu, intending on playing with them.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Shikadai Nara
Kensho Ono
小野 賢章
Ono Kenshō
Inojin Yamanaka
Atsushi Abe
阿部 敦
Abe Atsushi
Chōchō Akimichi
Ryoko Shiraishi
白石 涼子
Shiraishi Ryōko
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Konohamaru Sarutobi
Hidenori Takahashi
高橋 英則
Takahashi Hidenori
Akatsuchi
Kenta Miyake
三宅 健太
Miyake Kenta
Kontsuchi
Fumitake Ishiguro
石黒 史剛
Ishiguro Fumitake
Doctor
Tomohisa Aso
麻生 智久
Asō Tomohisa
Ōnoki
Tomomichi Nishimura
西村 知道
Nishimura Tomomichi
Kū
Subaru Kimura
木村 昴
Kimura Subaru
Kokuyō
Masashi Tamaki
玉木 雅士
Tamaki Masashi
Sekiei
Takehiro Urao
浦尾 岳大
Urao Takehiro
Kirara
Noriko Shibasaki
芝崎 典子
Shibasaki Noriko