"
Clash…!!
" (
激突…!!
,
Gekitotsu…!!
,
Viz:
 Collision!!) is chapter 7 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 manga.

Synopsis

In a
barren wasteland
 with a
God Tree
,
Momoshiki
 drains
Kurama
's chakra from
Naruto
, complaining how much there is, and how long it's taking. Naruto assures him they won't go down easy, because they're shinobi. The branch Naruto is bound to is cut down, Momoshiki and
Kinshiki
 noting the arrival of
Chōjūrō
 and
Darui
, both with their swords out. Momoshiki surmises
Sasuke
 brought them with his
Rinnegan
.
Boruto
 cuts the remaining branches holding Naruto. Sasuke breaks Naruto's fall.
Gaara
 and
Kurotsuchi
 join the group.
 Regaining his senses, Naruto notices Boruto wearing his old clothes. Sasuke tells Naruto Boruto's become a shinobi, and goes to battle. Naruto tells Boruto how much he looks like him in those clothes. Naruto apologises for the state of their relationship. Boruto tells him to tell him stories of his past. Sasuke fights Kinshiki. Chōjūrō interferes with Kinshiki's attack, noting he's fast for his size. Kinshiki changes his focus to Chōjūrō, landing one attack. He tells Chōjūrō he left himself open, but Chōjūrō tells him he's done the same. Kurotsuchi appears
from the ground
, landing a powerful punch on Kinshiki, sending him flying. As Kinshiki steadies himself, Sasuke lands a
Chidori
 from behind with his sword, sending him to the ground. There, Kinshiki is pinned down by
splinters
 from Chōjūrō, and
ash
 from Kurotsuchi. Gaara creates
sand platforms
 to give Darui footing in his pursuit of Momoshiki, who blocks his sword with
black receivers
. Naruto readies himself to join the fight, but Boruto warns him that ninjutsu won't work against Momoshiki. Momoshiki is cornered by Sasuke, who has deduced how his ninjutsu absorption works, comparing it to the
Kote
. Momoshiki notices Kinshiki has been immobilised. He turns his attention to Naruto and Boruto, looking at them with his
Byakugan
, and realising something about their fate. He points out that even if Naruto has all that power, he cannot pass it along to Boruto, much to their confusion. Momoshiki offers to show how power is passed down in his clan, turning Kinshiki into a
chakra edible
 and consuming it. Sasuke tries attacking him, to no effect. Momoshiki manifests a third Rinnegan on his forehead and begins changing, promising Naruto he's next.

Trivia

The chapter contains several changes compared to the events of
Boruto: Naruto the Movie
:

Boruto warns Naruto not to use ninjutsu against Momoshiki instead of Sasuke, who does this in the movie.

Momoshiki chooses to absorb Kinshiki on his own, without even asking him, while in the movie Kinshiki is the one who willingly offers himself to be absorbed. Although, Kinshiki was shown to be grinning when it happened in the manga, meaning he wanted it to happen anyway.

Sasuke tries to prevent Momoshiki from consuming the
chakra edible
 by attacking him with his sword, although in the movie Momoshiki consumes it without anyone interrupting him.

Momoshiki's transformation after absorbing Kinshiki looks different from its movie version.