This article is about the classification. For the ninjutsu itself, see
Clone Technique
.





The Multiple Shadow Clone Technique.



Clone techniques
 (
分身術
,
Bunshinjutsu
) are techniques that create copies of the user or their tools. Though the standard
Clone Technique
 is considered the most basic of
ninjutsu
, these techniques are highly versatile, often used to distract enemies or fool them into thinking they have landed a hit on the user. Corporeal clones can aid the user in physical combat, and even use techniques independent of the original. There are varying methods of creating clones, some techniques using only
chakra
 while others require some sort of medium to give the clones form and substance. There are also clone techniques that transform another person or animal into a clone of the user, such as the
Beast Human Clone
, as well as
genjutsu
 which create illusory clones, such as the
Mist Servant Technique
.

Clone techniques can also be applied to material objects, such as the
Shuriken Shadow Clone Technique
. However, such a feat is on a far higher level than using the technique on oneself.

Clones have been noted several times to be reduced in quality from the original in some way, shape, or form. Madara boasted that clones are useless against him and Obito mentioned the chakra received from a clone could not supply him the chakra he needed to use Kamui to sync with Kaguya's dimensions.

Human Cloning

During his experiments on
Shin Uchiha
,
Orochimaru
 developed a variant of
clones
, which were considered to be a higher class than the
Shadow Clone Technique
. The
results
 are that each one is the same as the original, and that they will not disappear even if struck with sufficient force; the only method of dispersal is killing them.
 In a way, they are similar to
White Zetsu
's
Parasite Clone
, though unlike them, they have their own sense of individuality and free will, leading them to betray the original Shin when they see fit. These clones have also created their own clones without the original noticing, but had done so improperly, which resulted in various genetic and physical defects. Regardless, since they are not bound by the original nor can be dispersed like a normal technique, they are essentially separate, living individuals.
 Orochimaru later applied this to create partial clones of himself,
Log
 and
Mitsuki
.

Other individuals have also created various types of clones, whether they are based off of Orochimaru's methods or independently:

Kabuto Yakushi
 gathered some of
Manda
's genes to create a modified clone,
Manda II
, who has been enhanced to have more draconic features than the original. Unlike the original Manda, Manda II was unquestionably obedient to the summoner.

The
Iwa Doctor
 combined White Zetsu DNA with that of
Ōnoki
's to create a partial clone of the latter,
Kū
. Kū, alongside the other
Fabrications
, were flawed with an unstable lifespan, which can be mitigated by transplanting a human heart into the body.

Amado Sanzu
 already had experience with human cloning when his daughter Akebi contracted an unknown, incurable, fatal illness. Rather than trying to develop a cure or new treatment, he opted to clone her, finding it more expedient to create a new healthy body over fix a diseased one. He preserved her brain and was able to extract and digitise her memories, creating a backup. However, when he implanted it onto the cloned body, despite having her memories, the clone had a completely different personality. Amado repeated the process many times, but always failed to restore Akebi's personality. These clones became known as
Delta
. He later created a clone of
Jiraiya
 named
Koji Kashin
, and enhanced his body with
Shinobi-Ware
. Koji has proven himself to be superior in terms of power than his genetic template, such as more potent techniques and full mastery of
Sage Mode
.

See Also

List of clone techniques

Trivia

While the
Fission Technique
 and
Division
 seem similar to clone techniques, they are in fact different by physical separation of the user, as none of the entities are considered to be the original.

References