"
Connected Feelings
" (
つながる想い
,
Tsunagaru Omoi
) is episode 22 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Naruto
 is unable to sense
Sakura
 or their enemies, concluding they're either too far away or hidden inside a barrier. Sakura offers
Shin
 to treat his injured child, but Shin reveals they're all clones cultivated from his teeth and nervous tissue, revealing himself as a former follower of
Orochimaru
. Shin controls his weapons and opens up the injured clone, killing him. Naruto considers the possibility of Shin being involved with Orochimaru, recalling his conversation with
Kakashi
.
Sasuke
 agrees, remarking Shin's
Sharingan
-embedded arm as Orochimaru's work. However, Naruto is sceptical Shin took Sakura to Orochimaru, as he is under surveillance by Konoha shinobi.
 Sasuke nonetheless thinks they should meet Orochimaru to learn more about Shin.
Sarada
 is disheartened by Sasuke's lack of concern about Sakura, and he tells her that if she intends to be a shinobi, she shouldn't let personal feelings affect her missions.
Chōchō
 tries to lighten the mood by offering them chips. Naruto suggests they take the children with them, as Shin also went after Sarada, and whispers to her she might meet the people from the photo with Orochimaru. Shin tells Sakura about his approach to life, death and evolution, denouncing peace as something that keeps shinobi from growing stronger and developing new ninjutsu. Shin credits
Akatsuki
 for creating conflict that made shinobi stronger. Shin finishes transplanting organs from his deceased clone to himself. Naruto greets
Yamato
 outside Orochimaru's hideout. Sasuke leads them inside, where they come across
Jūgo
 and
Suigetsu
, who Sarada recognises from the photo. Orochimaru joins them. Sasuke asks about his relation to Shin. Orochimaru takes them to another room, and talks about Shin's background as a former test subject and his goals. Sarada pulls Suigetsu aside and asks him about the woman in the photo. She has him run a DNA test, using an umbilical cord from Karin's belongings. The test is a match. Naruto overhears them, and chastises Suigetsu for messing things up. He tries calming Sarada, but she snaps when he mentions rescuing Sakura, denouncing any ties with her. He notices her Sharingan and hands her a mirror, so she sees it herself. Sarada claims he doesn't understand her situation, causing him to remember his own bonds. Naruto asks her if she has any feelings for Sakura, and she realises she does want to rescue her. They join the others outside. Orochimaru brings up the possibility Sakura is dead, but Sasuke tells him his wife isn't weak. Shin tells Sakura that Sasuke doesn't deserve to carry on the Uchiha name, and intends to kill him and take his Sharingan. Sasuke takes Naruto, Sarada, and Chōchō on his
Susanoo
, having learned of Shin's location from Orochimaru.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Cherami Leigh
Chōchō Akimichi
Ryoko Shiraishi
白石 涼子
Shiraishi Ryōko
Colleen O'Shaughnessey
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Maile Flanagan
Sasuke Uchiha
Noriaki Sugiyama
杉山 紀彰
Sugiyama Noriaki
Yuri Lowenthal
Sakura Uchiha
Chie Nakamura
中村 千絵
Nakamura Chie
Kate Higgins
Shin Uchiha
Nobuyuki Hiyama
檜山 修之
Hiyama Nobuyuki
Mick Wingert
Shin Uchiha (boys)
Misuzu Togashi
富樫 美鈴
Togashi Misuzu
Alex Cazares
Yamato
Rikiya Koyama
小山 力也
Koyama Rikiya
Matthew Mercer
Orochimaru
Kujira
くじら
Kujira
Steve Blum
Suigetsu
Takashi Kondo
近藤 隆
Kondō Takashi
Grant George
Jūgo
Shuhei Sakaguchi
阪口 周平
Sakaguchi Shūhei
Kyle Hebert