This article is about the chapter. For the episode, see
Control (episode)
.

"
Control
" (
支配
,
Kontorōru
) is chapter 64 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 manga.

Summary

Code
 is pleased by
Boruto
's drawing on his
Kāma
's power. Recalling
Momoshiki
's taunting,
Kawaki
 insults him. Code is curious by how Momoshiki's consciousness can emerge while Boruto remains only a vessel. They are surprised to notice Boruto is still in control as he cautions Kawaki to stay back. Boruto attacks with
shadow clones
, and Code notices his increased strength. He places a
mark
 on Boruto and uses it to avoid attacks and launch his own at the clones. Boruto manages to pull Code through his mark with the help of a clone and lands a punch. Code puts distance between them, and Kawaki wonders how Boruto is in control and stronger than before. Code consults
Ada
, who while unsure of what's happening in Boruto's body, speculates it might be due to
Amado
's drugs, and warns him not to underestimate Boruto.
Naruto
 instructs
Ino
 to look for Boruto's chakra instead of Kawaki's.
Shikamaru
 arrives, concerned that the enemy might be where they are as well, and clarifies he'll be going with Naruto, as he no longer has
Kurama
's power.
 He further justifies it with
Sasuke
 still being away tracking Code, and
Sai
 being busy guarding Amado.
Hinata
 wants to join them, but Naruto wants her to stay with
Himawari
 with Shikamaru agree asking Hinata not to be insistant on going. Himawari asks Naruto to come home safe with Boruto and Kawaki. Naruto reassures her while entering
Sage Mode
. Boruto attempts to absorb Code's marks in vain. Kawaki explains that while they're mostly chakra based, there's enough iron from Code's blood in them to make them physical matter that Kāma can't absorb. He asks Boruto about Momoshiki, who also speculates Amado's medicine might be responsible for him not emerging. Boruto wants to focus on taking Code down. Code comments that regardless of medicine, they can't get rid of Momoshiki, and that whoever he is, he's still an
Ōtsutsuki
, and as a quality sacrifice, should produce a fine
God Tree
. Boruto notices Code's knowledge of Amado's drugs. Code decides to grab Boruto when his maturation is almost complete, and moves through his marks to grab Kawaki for Ada. Kawaki attacks Code with a shadow clone, forcing him to move through a mark to escape Boruto's
Rasengan
. Code comments on Kawaki's change of heart, who explains all he does is for Naruto, Boruto adding that taking him down now would be the most expedient thing to do. He and Code exchange insults. Naruto in Sage Mode finds Boruto and an unidentified chakra, and
coordinates with
 Ino. Naruto and Shikamaru move out, Naruto leaving behind two shadow clones gathering
natural energy
. He assuages Shikamaru's concern about the duration of Sage Mode, and Shikamaru in turn asks him not to overdo it. Code and Boruto fight, with Code narrowly avoiding Boruto's
Vanishing Rasengan
. Ada tells Code to stop fooling around. Boruto suddenly collapses in pain.

Trivia

The kanji used in this chapter's title are normally read as "shihai".