This article is about the chapter. For the volume, see
Crack
.

"
Crack
" (
皹
,
Hibi
) is chapter 595 of the original
Naruto
 manga.

Summary

Formulating their strategy as
Naruto
 produces a
shadow clone
, the shinobi agree that the use of feint attacks would be crucial in this battle because of
Tobi
's abilities. Moving directly towards Tobi, Naruto uses the
Super Mini-Tailed Beast Ball
 while
Kakashi
 asks
B
 to hoist him into the air as he activates his
Mangekyō Sharingan
. Deciding that it was best to avoid direct contact,
Guy
 takes out his pair of
Nunchaku
. Tobi, wielding his
gunbai
 is able to stave off Naruto's attacks but ultimately has a harder time at things once Guy joins the fray. Using his nunchaku to counter Tobi's gunbai, Guy is able to send the masked man throttling towards Naruto and his Super Mini-Tailed Beast Ball. Using that opportunity, Kakashi activates
Kamui
 with the intention of ripping the
Demonic Statue of the Outer Path
's neck off. However, the statue — which by this time was bleeding from the eyes and metamorphosing — is seemingly able to nullify the attack which confused Kakashi greatly, who immediately thinks of a possible reason for this, but it was not revealed what his thoughts were. As Naruto's attack is about to make contact, Tobi teleports, prompting Naruto to
sense his intent
 and evade Tobi emerging from the ground directly below him in a surprise attack. Dodging the initial attack, Naruto, now separated from the others, has a harder time blocking Tobi's gunbai. Kakashi
imbues
 a
kunai
 with the
Lightning Release
 and once again calls out to B. Launching him across the battlefield, Kakashi easily cuts through a rock that separated him from Naruto and then launches the kunai at Tobi. Forced to become intangible, but not one to give up so easily, Tobi changed the trajectory of the kunai and sends it hurtling towards Naruto. Telling him to ignore the kunai, Kakashi uses Kamui once again to warp the kunai away. Regrouping as the last attack seemingly fails to land, the
shinobi
 wonder how they were going to defeat Tobi. Just then, a tiny crack appears on Tobi's mask.