"
Creeping Shadow
" (
忍び寄る影
,
Shinobiyoru Kage
) is episode 347 of the
Naruto: Shippūden
 anime.

Summary

Kakashi
 comes looking for
Jiraiya
 and tells him that the
Ame Orphans
 are attempting to bring about change in
Amegakure
, through dialogue instead of military might. Jiraiya is satisfied to learn that the orphans are now growing up and reminisces of his time with them. Elsewhere at Amegakure,
Kyūsuke
 brings letters of requests to
Yahiko
, which the
Akatsuki
 will fulfil. Yahiko is determined that the Akatsuki can surpass
Hanzō
 one day. At Hanzō's residence, he is informed of the Akatsuki by one of his men and expresses his approval for an organisation which shares the same ideal as him.
 Meanwhile, Yahiko,
Konan
 and
Nagato
 head to a small village that was earlier attacked. There, they meet with a group of people, who want to attack
Iwagakure
 but the Akatsuki insists solving the issue through peace talks instead with the villagers refusing. This effort is in vain as the
Konoha

Anbu
 disguised as Iwa-shinobi refuse to negotiate and assault the three. Nagato is enraged, having witnessed Yahiko and Konan being beaten which has him remembering his parents confronting and dying at the hands of Konoha shinobi along with the three being attacked by an unnamed Iwagakure chūnin who Nagato later killed. Nagato's despair over the lives of his friends causes him to unwillingly summon the
Demonic Statue of the Outer Path
 which attacks the rival shinobi, killing an unknown number of them but Yahiko and Konan stop him, Yahiko bringing Nagato back to his senses before Nagato says Yahiko's name and then passes out. Once they've retreated, fleeing the area,
Danzō
 arrives to the location, having witnessed the event of the "Iwa shinobi" dying and as the shinobi get up, revealing some are in fact members of Root, one expresses concern that if Akatsuki move, their undercover teams disguised as shinobi will be in danger. Danzō then announces that for Konoha's sake, peace must not exist in Iwagakure and that the strategy was designed to obstruct peace, noting perhaps they can use that power. He then orders all the bodies to be gathered while any traces of their involvement must be erased, the Root member agreeing to do so. At the hideout, Yahiko has expressed guilt over the fact that his right hand is shaking after he fatally stabbed an Iwa shinobi. Upon receiving assurances from Nagato and Konan, he leaves, the remainder of the Akatsuki following, expressing their trust in him. Meanwhile, Danzō arrives at Hanzō's residence, with the corpses of the fallen shinobi, whom he and his men recognised as members of Hanzō's own clan, stating he and his men were on his way to a conference when they discovered the bodies. Hanzō is shocked to hear that the Akatsuki, a group that shares the same ideal as him, is responsible for this with Danzō eventually convincing him Akatsuki are wolves disguised as sheep and a threat to his rule, stating that if nothing is done, they will take over this village. Meanwhile, Zetsu and Obito have arrived at an area, the two discussing Danzo's involvement as Obito remarks there's no peace in this world and the only way to escape is through the
Infinite Tsukuyomi
.

Trivia

In one scene, Obito Uchiha's
Sharingan
 is mistakenly depicted with two tomoe instead of three.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Kakashi Hatake
Mutsumi Tamura
田村 睦心
Tamura Mutsumi
Dave Wittenberg
Jiraiya
Hochu Otsuka
大塚 芳忠
Ōtsuka Hōchū
David Lodge
Madara Uchiha
Naoya Uchida
内田 直哉
Uchida Naoya
Neil Kaplan
Zetsu
Nobuo Tobita
飛田 展男
Tobita Nobuo
Travis Willingham
Yahiko
Kenyu Horiuchi
堀内 賢雄
Horiuchi Ken'yū
Matthew Mercer
Nagato
Junpei Morita
森田 順平
Morita Junpei
Vic Mignogna
Konan
Atsuko Tanaka
田中 敦子
Tanaka Atsuko
Dorothy Elias-Fahn
Kyūsuke‎‎
Hidenobu Kiuchi
木内 秀信
Kiuchi Hidenobu
Keith Silverstein
Daibutsu‎‎
Kosuke Goto
後藤 光祐
Gotō Kōsuke
Travis Willingham
Danzō
Hiroshi Ito
糸 博
Ito Hiroshi
William Knight
Hanzō of the Salamander
Ikuya Sawaki
沢木 郁也
Sawaki Ikuya
Richard Epcar
Hanzō‎'s subordinate
Taira Kikumoto
菊本 平
Kikumoto Taira
Skip Stellrecht
Monjin
Shinobu Matsumoto
松本 忍
Matsumoto Shinobu
Richard Epcar
Nagato (child)
Tomoaki Maeno
前野 智昭
Maeno Tomoaki
Vic Mignogna