The
Cursed Seal of Heaven
 is one of the strongest of
Orochimaru
's
cursed seals
, the other being its counterpart, the
Cursed Seal of Earth
.

Appearance

The seal consists of three
tomoe
 (the design known as mitsudomoe), similar to the
Sharingan
, which when activated, the seal turns orange-red and spreads flame-like markings across
Sasuke
 and
Anko
's bodies.

Usage

Like all cursed seals, the user receives increased
chakra
 levels and physical capabilities when the seal is active, to the point where with the second level, Sasuke was equal in power to
Naruto
's
one-tailed form
 when he first used it. The seal was applied on the left side of the back of both Sasuke's and Anko's necks.

Anko received her cursed seal when she was a student of Orochimaru. She, along with nine others, were the first people to receive a cursed seal. She was the only one to survive the application, establishing the one-in-ten success rate for the procedure. Because she lacked the will to use it, her seal receded, and (in the anime) Orochimaru wiped her memory. Orochimaru was able to briefly reactivate the seal when they fought in the
Forest of Death
 before the
Third Hokage
 sealed it off again. It was fully removed when Sasuke used it as a medium to revive Orochimaru's consciousness and body via the
Evil Releasing Method
.






Sasuke receives curse seal.



Orochimaru branded Sasuke with the cursed seal in the second phase of the
Chūnin Exams
, which took place in the Forest of Death. Orochimaru intended to have the seal corrode Sasuke's mind so that he could become his next body.
Kakashi Hatake
 used the
Evil Sealing Method
 to try and prevent this, but its effectiveness relied on Sasuke's choosing not to use his cursed seal. Sasuke ultimately chose to advance his seal to its second level, and went to Orochimaru with the help of the
Sound Four
.

When Sasuke activated the second level of the seal, his skin turned dark-grey and his hair grew and turned dark blue. His eyes also turned dark grey. Additionally, he grew webbed-claw-shaped wings from his back which he could use to fly and glide, and a dark, star-shaped mark appeared across the bridge of his nose. Should any limbs be lost, Sasuke is able to replace them with
snakes
. During Sasuke's battle with
Itachi Uchiha
, he lost the cursed seal, along with Orochimaru (having earlier been absorbed into Sasuke's body), as they were removed with the
Sword of Totsuka
.

According to
Kabuto
, the seal itself contains Orochimaru's chakra, which Kabuto
used
 in order to improve the binding power of
Summoning: Impure World Reincarnation
. In fact, when Orochimaru was defeated, his consciousness remained split amongst the cursed seals, and Sasuke used that, along with a piece of Kabuto's modified flesh, to bring the former back to his original state and mind.

References