The daimyō of the Five Great Shinobi Countries.



A
daimyō
 (
大名
,
English TV:
 Feudal Lord,
literally meaning:
 Great Name) is the political leader of a
country
. A daimyō is responsible for all decisions concerning their country, from alliances to the annual budget to the privileges allowed to the country's
hidden village
. Daimyō are therefore one of the single most important individuals in the entire country and hold the highest degree of political power, such that they are given special protection by the
Allied Shinobi Forces
 during the
Fourth Shinobi World War
.

The final decision in the appointing of a new
Kage
 for their nation's respective
hidden village
 can rest within the daimyō's authority. In the case of
Konohagakure
, the
Hokage
 typically selects their successor but if the Hokage dies or is otherwise incapacitated, this responsibility moves to the daimyō. The daimyō is advised by his committee, the
Konoha Council
, the
Jōnin Commander
 and a representative of the
Anbu
 during this selection.
 Once a candidate has been selected, the incumbent must then be agreeable to all the
jōnin
 before they are sworn into office. For example,
Danzō Shimura
 was selected as the Sixth Hokage Candidate when Tsunade was in a coma but died before the jōnin could convene and thus his position was never made official.

Daimyō frequently attend the final round matches of the
Chūnin Exams
, either to bet on the fights or to seek out up-and-coming talent. In
Shikamaru Hiden
, daimyō are noted to always reside in their country's capital city, constantly waited upon by numerous attendants and advisers who, themselves, tend to be overbearing and arrogant to the general population.
Gengo
 blames daimyō for the world's many conflicts, as daimyō tend to squabble between themselves that they then send
shinobi
 to sort out. Because the daimyō don't personally involve themselves in these wars, they never truly appreciate the horrors of battle and thus inevitably get into some other petty conflict at some future date.

Kisame Hoshigaki
 was condemned as a
missing-nin
 in part because he was involved in killing a daimyō from another country.

Despite a daimyō's importance for their respective country and hidden village, some of their political decisions may cause unrest and induce rebellion. When the
daimyō
 of the
Land of Wind
 outsourced many jobs to the less expensive
Konohagakure
 while reducing funding for his own country's
Sunagakure
, he became very unpopular among the latter village, who even allied themselves with an international criminal like
Orochimaru
 in an attempt to
induce fear
 into the daimyō.

References

See Also

List of daimyō