This article is about episode 211 of Naruto: Shippūden. For the character, see
Danzō Shimura
.

"
Danzō Shimura
" (
志村ダンゾウ
,
Shimura Danzō
) is episode 211 of the
Naruto: Shippūden
 anime.

Synopsis

Sasuke
 and
Danzō
 are stabbed by each other's
Chidori Sharp Spear
 and
Wind Release: Vacuum Blade
 respectively. Danzō remarks that Sasuke is foolish to think he could win and attempts to use his
Izanagi
 to reverse his injuries. However, to his shock, he is unable to use it and notices that all ten
Sharingan
 eyes on his right arm have been sealed shut.
Madara
 realises that Sasuke had been using
genjutsu
 to subtly make Danzō believe that his Izanagi time had slightly increased; thus, Danzō used what he believed were just eight out of the ten eyes when in reality he had exhausted all of them.

Pulling away from the Chidori Sharp Spear, Danzō's right shoulder begins to grow uncontrollably. As a tree begins to emerge, Danzō slices off his right arm completely, while Madara theorises that Danzō was unable to suppress
Hashirama Senju
's cells or control the
Wood Release
 with his
chakra
 levels being so low. Danzō removes the bandages around his head to reveal another Sharingan eye in his right eye socket, which Madara recognises as
Shisui Uchiha
's, the one capable of using
Kotoamatsukami
. Madara wonders whether Danzō would use Kotoamatsukami or Izanagi against Sasuke, although Danzō, knowing that Izanagi would render the Sharingan useless and wanting to save Kotoamatsukami to control Madara, decides to simply take
Karin
 hostage, using her as a human shield. Karin begs Sasuke to save her while Danzō remarks that he must resort to such tactics in order to survive and strengthen the
shinobi
 world, and that Karin would just be a means to reach that end. Sasuke tells Karin not to move; as she smiles, thinking he would save her, Sasuke pierces them both with his Chidori Sharp Spear, striking one of Danzō's vital spots.

Danzō proceeds to hop across the
Samurai Bridge
, desperate to survive, as Sasuke merely walks behind him, smirking. Madara arrives to block Danzō's path and notifies him that he would be taking Shisui's eye now. Sasuke gasps as he recalls when
Itachi
 was
suspected
 of murdering his best friend Shisui and is shocked to know that Shisui's Sharingan was taken by Danzō. Meanwhile, Danzō recalls memories of the
First Shinobi World War
, in which he was placed in an
Escort Unit
 consisting of
Team Tobirama
,
Kagami Uchiha
,
Torifu Akimichi
, and himself. He had been saved from near death by his teammate and rival
Hiruzen Sarutobi
, which irked him. As they were being pursued by
twenty Kumo-nin
, the team realised that one of them had to stay back to give the others time to escape, sacrificing their life in the process. Danzō considered offering himself up, but hesitated, due to his strong desire to live. Hiruzen offered to be the lure, earning Danzō's vexation, who protested against Hiruzen's attempts to outstage him. The team's leader,
Tobirama Senju
, who was the Second Hokage, berated Danzō for always competing against Hiruzen instead of working together as a team and decided to be the one who stayed back himself, as he was the oldest and wanted the younger generation to live a lengthier life. Before departing on his suicide mission, he bestowed the title of the Third Hokage to Hiruzen, telling his student to pass down the
Will of Fire
 and to take good care of the village.

Danzō tells himself that just like Hiruzen had
sacrificed
 himself to save the village, it was time he did the same too, and decides to take Madara and Sasuke with him to the afterlife for what he perceives as the welfare of
Konoha
. Using his
Reverse Four Symbols Sealing
 technique, Danzō unleashes a black sphere with the objective of drawing and sealing Madara and Sasuke's soul into his body; however, Sasuke and Madara manage to get out of the sphere's radius. As he dies, Danzō thinks back on his rivalry with Hiruzen and wonders what Hiruzen would have thought of his actions, while musing that no matter what he did, he was unable to become
Hokage
 like he'd always wanted.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Sasuke Uchiha
Noriaki Sugiyama
杉山 紀彰
Sugiyama Noriaki
Yuri Lowenthal
Karin
Kanako Tojo
東條 加那子
Tōjō Kanako
Ali Hillis
Madara Uchiha
Naoya Uchida
内田 直哉
Uchida Naoya
Neil Kaplan
Sixth Hokage: Danzō
Hiroshi Ito
糸 博
Ito Hiroshi
William Knight
Second Hokage: Tobirama Senju
Kenyu Horiuchi
堀内 賢雄
Horiuchi Ken'yū
Jamieson Price
Third Hokage: Hiruzen Sarutobi
Hidekatsu Shibata
柴田 秀勝
Shibata Hidekatsu
Steve Kramer
Danzō Shimura
Masayuki Kato
加藤 将之
Katō Masayuki
Peter Lurie
Hiruzen Sarutobi
Keisuke Fujii
藤井 啓輔
Fujii Keisuke
Steve Kramer
Homura Mitokado
Taira Kikumoto
菊本 平
Kikumoto Taira
Beau Billingslea
Koharu Utatane
Ikuko Watanabe
渡辺 育子
Watanabe Ikuko
Mary Elizabeth McGlynn
Kagami Uchiha
Kengo Kawanishi
河西 健吾
Kawanishi Kengo
Johnny Yong Bosch
Torifu Akimichi
Junpei Endo
遠藤 純平
Endō Junpei
Neil Kaplan