"
Death Match
" (
死闘
,
Shitō
) is episode 166 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Sarada
 wonders how strong the third party after the
Hashirama
 Cell must be if they defeated the
Kumogakure
 jōnin.
Boruto
 tries to reassure
Hiruga
, but he says he won't join forces with them, only wishing to warn his brother. The Konoha shinobi fall back to let Hiruga warn
Asaka
. Asaka attacks Hiruga, believing Hiruga to have died fighting and the person in front of him someone transformed into Hiruga. Boruto interferes, allowing Hiruga to confirm his identity. Hiruga calls a temporary truce with the Konoha shinobi until they defeat the third party. Hiruga and Asaka are suddenly attacked.
Deepa
 announces his presence and blocks Boruto's kunai. They notice it didn't leave a scratch, and Deepa mentions how he
manipulates carbon
 to make himself so impervious.
Konohamaru
 attempts a
Fire Release
, to no avail. The genin put themselves between Deepa and the Haze shinobi. Deepa refuses to say why he wants the Hashirama Cell, saying it would take too long to explain.
Victor
 appears, talking down to Deepa. He asks for them to return the cells, but they refuse. Victor rushes near them and
creates a twister
, separating the jōnin from the group. Victor goes deal with them and tells Deepa to deal with the genin. Deepa attacks them with carbon cubes. Victor fights
Mugino
, who holds in place for Konohamaru's attack from above. Victor manifests two extra arms to weave hand seals and calls down
lightning
.
 Konohamaru asks Mugino to act as support since he can't fight with his injury. The genin can't focus on attacking Deepa while dodging his cubes. Boruto manages to land a
Rasengan
 from above, but it does nothing. Asaka tries reaching out to Hiruga, who is dead. Deepa implies he will eat the genin. Boruto wants to land another Rasengan at Deepa.
Mitsuki
 lands a surprise
Lightning Release
, which does nothing. He
attacks with snakes
 while Sarada analysis Deepa's movements with her
Sharingan
 for an opening. She manages to dodge and deflect his cubes and moves out of the way at last time as she runs out of chakra, revealing Boruto right behind her. Deepa feigns pain from Boruto's attack for a moment and laughs at his attempt. Deepa carbons up his finger and flicks Boruto aside. Deepa prepares to crush Boruto with his foot, but Asaka draws his attention with the Hashirama Cell and sets off an
explosion
 with his
kinjutsu
. Deepa has no scratch on him, but is irritated that the Hashirama Cell was in danger. Boruto passes out, and Deepa punches down with his armoured fist. He hits nothing, Mitsuki having saved Boruto with his
Sage Mode
. Mitsuki attacks Deepa with
senjutsu lightning
, and flees carrying the unconscious Boruto and Sarada. The attacks merely pushes Deepa back a bit, and he shifts his focus to the Hashirama Cell still with him. Mugino rescues Konohamaru from being strangled by Victor. An explosion from the fight between Deepa and the genin draws their attention, and Victor decides to check why Deepa is taking so long. Konohamaru and Mugino are too injured and tired to chase him. Victor finds Deepa, who has recovered the Hashirama Cell while letting the genin escape. Still in Sage Mode, Mitsuki vows to not let Boruto and Sarada die even if he endangers himself.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Konohamaru Sarutobi
Hidenori Takahashi
高橋 英則
Takahashi Hidenori
Mugino
Jun Kasama
笠間 淳
Kasama Jun
Asaka
Yusuke Hoshino
星野 佑典
Hoshino Yūsuke
Hiruga
Chiharu Sawashiro
沢城 千春
Sawashiro Chiharu
Deepa
Tetsuya Kakihara
柿原 徹也
Kakihara Tetsuya
Victor
Cho
チョー
Chō