Through the
Outer Path
, the user is able to manifest chakra chains, which bind anyone they touch. According to
Obito
, this binding power is far greater than that of
Nagato
's Outer Path.
 The chains possess a
cursed seal
 that suppresses the power of
tailed beasts
,
 and also cause a great deal of pain to their victims.

Obito was able to generate these chains through the use of
black receivers
. He implanted a single receiver into each of his
Six Paths of Pain
, which were made into temporary
jinchūriki
. By manifesting chains from the jinchūriki's receivers and connecting them to his hand, he was able to bind and
suppress
 the tailed beasts inside them in the event that they resisted his control.
 When
Naruto Uzumaki
 was trapped inside the
Four-Tails
' mouth, Obito attempted to capture him by dragging the beast inside his own body using these chains.
 The beasts were also bound by chains within their consciousness; when the receivers were removed from their jinchūriki's bodies, these chains were replaced by a single larger chain connecting directly to the
Demonic Statue of the Outer Path
, permitting Obito to quickly reseal them into the statue.






The Demonic Statue emitting chains.



The Demonic Statue itself is able to emit chakra chains from its mouth. When
Madara
 retrieved his
Rinnegan
 and took control of the statue, he used it to produce chains with tips shaped like a dragon's head.
 These chains were able to quickly restrain and seal all nine tailed beasts by wrapping around their necks like collars and dragging them into the statue. The chains are also capable of extracting tailed beasts from their jinchūriki, as well as preventing them from cancelling their
Tailed Beast Mode
. In the event that they are severed, these chains can easily be reconnected.

See Also

Adamantine Sealing Chains

Beast Sealing Technique

Dharma Power Sealing Technique: Sen no Rikyū

Sealing Technique: Phantom Dragons Nine Consuming Seals

Tight Binding Golden Chain Technique

References