"
Developing One's Medical Ninjutsu
" (
医療忍術のすすめ
,
Iryō Ninjutsu no Susume
) is episode 152 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Team 7
 sees a notice regarding
medical ninjutsu
 training. They're taught some in the
Academy
, but this is a more advanced course, and each team has to send a representative.
Boruto
 and
Mitsuki
 aren't interested, so they suggest
Sarada
, as her mother is the one teaching the class. Sarada hesitantly agrees.
Naruto
,
Shikamaru
, and
Sakura
 review the applications. They comment on how it's been difficult to schedule the class with the recent group being involved in so many incidents, and they hope they class uncovers someone with an aptitude to medical ninjutsu. Sarada worries about taking the class, since she didn't have any aptitude for it when it was taught at the Academy. Sarada overhears
Shikadai
 and
Inojin
 talking about how perfect the
Hokage
 is, unaware they're talking about trading cards, and feels compelled to excel as she intends to be Hokage. The next day, she attends the class with
Hako
,
Wasabi
, Inojin,
Dōshu
, and
Iwabee
. They all either assume her aptitude, or count on her to help them if they struggle. Sarada perks up when Sakura explains they'll begin with a lecture followed by a written exam, as she's better at those than in practical application. In the first practical part of the class, Sakura has them mix coffee and milk, and then separate them again with delicate chakra control. Dōshu and Wasabi end up spilling the mixture, and Sarada panics as she only mixes it up more.
 Iwabee manages the separate the mixture, but the effort makes him thirsty, so he drinks a bit of Sarada's mix by accident, switching their glasses when she has her eyes closed focusing. Sarada is confused to see her mixture separated when she opens her eyes. Next, they practice the
Mystical Palm Technique
 on special dummies. Sarada has trouble doing it, and knocks her dummy off the table when Boruto surprises her from outside the window. It helps her use the jutsu. Boruto, Shikadai, and Mitsuki are caught, and explain that having finished their assignments, thought to come by and observe. The next exercise is about applying chakra to a flower bud, to make it bloom, simulating an injured comrade. Wasabi and Inojin end up snapping and dropping their flower stems. Dōshu's struggle to make his flower bloom works, but it knocks it aside to Sarada's side, causing others to believe she succeeded.
Shizune
 arrives for the final assignment, noting they haven't held the class in a long while, and brought Naruto and Shikamaru as guests. Sarada is encouraged to show her skills to Naruto, healing a fish dummy. Her nerves end up causing her to burn the fish instead of healing it. Sarada finally confesses she's no good at medical ninjutsu, and has no idea how she succeeded in the previous tasks. She confirms she felt pressured to perform well because she's Sakura's daughter. Naruto admits he can't use medical ninjutsu, and Boruto lists other things he has trouble doing. The class continues, and Inojin is able to perform the healing, so Sarada asks him for tips. Sakura is called to deal with an emergency, and Shizune reveals to Sarada that Sakura didn't pick up medical ninjutsu quickly, and had to go through a lot of training with
Tsunade
. At night, Sarada asks her mother why she became a medical ninja, and Sakura explains she wanted to become strong and walk beside Naruto and Sasuke, assuring Sarada she can also learn if she applies herself.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Sakura Uchiha
Chie Nakamura
中村 千絵
Nakamura Chie
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Shikadai Nara
Kensho Ono
小野 賢章
Ono Kenshō
Inojin Yamanaka
Atsushi Abe
阿部 敦
Abe Atsushi
Iwabee Yuino
Shinya Hamazoe
浜添 伸也
Hamazoe Shin'ya
Wasabi Izuno
Natsumi Yamada
山田 奈都美
Yamada Natsumi
Hako Kuroi
Aoi Inase
いなせ あおい
Inase Aoi
Dōshu Goetsu
Daiki Kajimoto
鍛治本 大樹
Kajimoto Daiki
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Shikamaru Nara
Shotaro Morikubo
森久保 祥太郎
Morikubo Shōtarō
Shizune
Keiko Nemoto
根本 圭子
Nemoto Keiko
Medical ninja
Ryo Nishitani
西谷 亮
Nishitani Ryō