"
Disappearing Lives
" (
消える命
,
Kieru Inochi
) is episode 277 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

The captives wait for
Ōga
 to announce the next experiment. A few complain of thirst,
Fugō
 trying in vain to exchange his luxury watch for another captive's water. The Kusa-nin agrees with
Boruto
 that they need to cooperate to survive.
Batta
 continues to only care about getting payed, and
Yatsume
 finds merit in both approaches, asking
Rokuro
's opinion. He thinks they need a strong will to survive throws a parasite on the Kusa-nin to force him to confess, accusing him of being Ōga's minion, as he activated the first experiment, and avoided the platform edges before they started crumbling. He grabs another captive and asks for Ōga's help before perishing. Rokuro picks another scroll, finding it useless to hesitate. It takes them do a dark room, where a candle lights up on its own when Yatsume grabs it. They all grab candles, which also light up. They're supposed to reach a goal, avoiding many traps, without letting their flame die. An older captive sneezes, blowing out his candle, and dies. Ōga explains the candle flame is their life, showing them lanterns to carry them. He adds how passing the candles from person to person works, the person not holding a candle dying if one goes out on someone else's hand.
 The candle belongs to whoever holds it.
Sarada
 and
Mitsuki
 look for the Thunder Train Boruto disappeared on, asking the company's staff about it. The Department of Prisons also made inquiries, and the employee working that day suddenly quit and went away. A train employee spies on them as they discuss Boruto's disappearance. They hear a snap and find money on the floor. The suspicious employee escapes, but later despairs at what he got involved in. The captives have to wade through water, Batta, Fugō, and Rokuro going first.
Shamo
 carries a girl he likes on his arms. They reach a closing gate that requires both hands for raising.
Kiseru
 is concerned Ōga has other minions among them. Batta is interested in the commotion, and offers to carry Fugō's briefcase so he can hold his lantern with both hands, promising not to steal it, but he refuses. Boruto trusts Yatsume with his lantern, but is unable to raise the gate until Kiseru and
Namua
 help him. Yatsume finds him odd. They reach a desert like area where trash is being burned, where fans begin blowing a dust storm. Boruto has the non-shinobi hold the candles, while the shinobi form a shield. Shamo creates an
earth wall
, but it's too weak and crumbles at Boruto's touch. They protect the non-shinobi from the storm with their bodies. When it passes, they're all alive. An old lady offers Boruto her water as thanks. He notices that Shamo and the girl with him aren't around, Kiseru saying they went ahead. Shamo helps her up a wall, but she leaves him behind as another dust storm kicks up around him. The old lady dies, her candle having melted completely. The heat of the area melted her candle, making it go out. They find Shamo abandoned as they reach the end, and catch up with the others, the girl now clinging to Rokuro. Ōga appears and offers a bonus stage, claiming that the elevator the first group is on will take them to the goal, but only has two more spots on it. Two civilians rush to fill it, and it closes. The others go into the second elevator. They notice it is moving too slowly, and the candles will be used up before they reach the top. Kiseru realises that the candle holding rules mean that taking and preserving stolen candles will increase their remaining time, but others would have to die. On the other elevator, Rokuro blows out the girl's candle, taking it for himself. Fugō wants Batta to steal the other civilians' candles so they can last. She hands him her lantern and makes their way to them. Boruto notices melted wax on the floor from his and Yatsume's candle. He recalls the rule that the candle belongs to whoever holds it, and suggests making one long candle they all hold on to. From the first elevator, only Rokuro, Batta, and Fugō came out alive. Batta is shaken, with blood on her hand holding a candle. When everyone from the second elevator appears alive, Ōga is amused by their ingenuity, and they're all transported back to the waiting room. Mitsuki and Sarada chase the train employee, and find where the Thunder Train changed tracks. He screams that the passengers became part of experiments, and runs into the tunnel, triggering
explosive tags
 which collapse the tunnel on top of him, to Sarada's and Mitsuki's shock.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Shamo
Aoi Inase
いなせ あおい
Inase Aoi
Yatsume
Sara Matsumoto
松本 沙羅
Matsumoto Sara
Kiseru
Katsunori Okai
岡井 カツノリ
Okai Katsunori
Namua
Shinya Hamazoe
浜添 伸也
Hamazoe Shin'ya
Batta
Chihiro Ikki
一木 千洋
Ikki Chihiro
Fugō
Taira Kikumoto
菊本 平
Kikumoto Taira
Rokuro
Atsushi Abe
阿部 敦
Abe Atsushi
Kusagakure shinobi
Hirokazu Sekido
関戸 博一
Sekido Hirokazu
Labyrinth people
Natsumi Yamada
Kazuya Saji
Kumi Takaragi
Juri Nagatsuma
山田 奈都美
佐治 和也
宝木 久美
長妻 樹里
Yamada Natsumi
Saji Kazuya
Takaragi Kumi
Nagatsuma Juri
Station employees
Kosuke Katayama
Ryo Nishitani
Kensho Ono
片山 公輔
西谷 亮
小野 賢章
Katayama Kōsuke
Nishitani Ryō
Ono Kenshō
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Ōga
Kappei Yamaguchi
山口 勝平
Yamaguchi Kappei