"
Do or Die
" (
ヤるかヤラレるか
,
Yaru ka Yarareru ka
,
Viz:
 Do-or-Die) is chapter 66 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 manga.

Summary

Kawaki
 recalls
Amado
's suggestion of acquiring a new
Kāma
.
Ada
 speculates that Amado never gave Kawaki a choice, and restored the Kāma back when he restored his right arm, knowing he'd hunger for more power.
Code
 deduces Amado intended for them to trigger Kawaki's power.
Shikamaru
 listens to Code's replies, confirming he has an ally.
Momoshiki
 is surprised, and attributes the new Kāma to Amado's schemes. He mocks Kawaki, telling him he'll be used by others until he is fed to the
Ten-Tails
. Kawaki begins attacking Momoshiki with
Isshiki
's jutsu, which both
Naruto
 and Code recognise, and Code wonders about Amado's goal. Kawaki begins to understand something. Naruto is concerned about him, but Kawaki cuts him off, reminding him that Shikamaru is still a hostage, though one he doesn't particularly care about. He says he'll do what needs to be done for Naruto. Momoshiki attacks Kawaki, and the two absorb the other's ninjutsu. Kawaki continues using
Sukunahikona
 and
Daikokuten
 against Momoshiki as they clash.
Boruto
's personality begins to emerge. Kawaki pierces Momoshiki with chakra rods, and attempts to crush with
cubes
, but Naruto saves Boruto.
 Code points out Naruto moved, but sees no more point in killing Shikamaru. Naruto has had enough, and questions if he really means to kill Boruto. Kawaki says it's what needs to done, as though Boruto is Naruto's son, Momoshiki is a demon who wishes to kill him. Naruto accuses him of acting like a demon, and Kawaki ignores it, saying the issue is that Naruto isn't able to do it himself, so he will. Naruto tells him to cool his head, and Kawaki retorts he has to face reality. Boruto wakes up, to Momoshiki's surprise, and tells him to go back to sleep. He says Amado's drugs have somewhat worked, but accepts they're no solution, as he almost killed Naruto. Kawaki asks if he remembers what he said before, which Boruto confirms. Boruto accepts they'll have to use their last resort plan, which Kawaki deems unfortunate. Naruto asks what that is, and Boruto apologises, asking him to give his best to
Hinata
 and
Himawari
 as he pushes him away with
Wind Release: Gale Palm
. Boruto asks Kawaki to do it while he can still hold Momoshiki back. Kawaki
morphs his arm
 and punches through Boruto's chest, shocking everyone. Naruto yells out for Boruto as his body lays on the floor.