This article is about chapter 606 of the manga. For volume 63, see
Dream World
.

"
Dream World
" (
夢の世界
,
Yume no Sekai
,
Viz:
 World of Dreams) is chapter 606 of the original
Naruto
 manga.

Summary

Still in disbelief,
Obito
 walks over towards
Rin
's body, with
Madara
 and
White Zetsu
's words echoing in his head.
Phasing
 right through
Kakashi
's body as he went, he stopped only when he had reached Rin's corpse. Initially phasing through the
kunoichi
's body as he tried to check her pulse, Obito finally realises that she is in fact dead and as he cradled Rin's lifeless body, vowed to create a world where she was alive, and change the fate of this world. After returning to Madara, as the elder
Uchiha
 had predicted, and hearing from White Zetsu that no one saw them, he beckons the young Uchiha to his side. Telling Obito to look into his left
eye
, Madara takes the young man to a genjutsu where as a means to explain his plans, made himself look younger before telling Obito the story of the
Sage of the Six Paths
 and the
Ten-Tails
. Some time after this, Obito and Zetsu would travel to
Amegakure
 to meet
Nagato
 — a young man of
Senju

lineage
 that Madara had implanted his
Rinnegan
 which he had awoken before shutting himself away from the world. Obito remembers Madara telling him that he had acquired the
dōjutsu
 after implanting Senju DNA into his body, but not until he had neared the end of his lifespan, did the dōjutsu awaken. Madara would later explain that this allowed him to summon the
empty shell of the Ten-Tails
 and use it as a catalyst to cultivate the
Hashirama's living clone
. Madara would then teach Obito how to control the statue, several Uchiha
kinjutsu
 and
Yin–Yang Release
. He, at some point, put his will into half of White Zetsu, thus creating
Black Zetsu
, and also into Hashirama's living clone, causing a
black receiver
 to extend from the clone's navel and told Obito to use it when performing the
Six Paths Technique
 before breaking the connection to the statue. As life left the elder Uchiha's body, he told Obito to go until the time he was revived. At this point, Obito and Zetsu approach Nagato, with Obito announcing himself to be Madara Uchiha.