This is a style of
taijutsu
 that is only possible while the user is very drunk. Because they are intoxicated, users move irregularly and erratically: they attack with no warning and defend with unconventional motions. Users have no conscious awareness of what actions they'll take, which also means opponents can't predict what they'll do. In
Rock Lee
's case, he also becomes extremely belligerent while drunk, thereby adding to his opponent's confusion because of how polite he usually is.
 According to
Might Guy
, the Drunken Fist cannot be learned, taught, nor refined through training and practice.
[
citation needed
]

Lee is a natural prodigy of the Drunken Fist.
 After drinking only a small amount of alcohol, his cheeks become red and he goes into a drunken rage, picking fights with friends and foes alike.
 Since he's already very gifted with taijutsu, Lee is extremely destructive in his drunken state;
 during his first drunk experience, he destroyed the restaurant where he was dining and even Guy struggled to subdue him.
 Because of how easily Lee becomes drunk, he also sobers just as easily: when
Kimimaro
 only scratches his face,
 Lee returns to normal shortly afterwards. Lee seems to have no memory of his actions while drunk, or at least he can't understand his hangover.

In the anime, Lee developed a variant called
Seasickness Fist
, where he makes use of nausea caused by
seasickness
 to overcome the fact he can't drink alcohol.

Trivia

Drunken boxing
 is a
Chinese martial art
 where the practitioner imitates the movements of a drunk person.

In English translations of the series, the
sake
 Lee drinks is referred to as either a "potion" or "elixir" to avoid references to alcohol.

Despite this, elixir is typically made of 40-60% alcohol.

Drunken Fist Lee is playable in some of the
Naruto: Ultimate Ninja
 video games
 as a transformation character. The transformation only lasts for a set amount of time.

In a censored English version, Lee's cheeks are not red. However in the uncensored English they remain red.

References