"
Ebisu Returns: Naruto's Toughest Training Yet!
" (
エビス再び!ハレンチは私が許しませんぞ!
,
Ebisu Futatabi! Harenchi wa Watashi ga Yurushimasenzo!
) is episode 52 of the original
Naruto
 anime.

Synopsis

At the
Konoha Hospital
,
Naruto
 wants to visit
Sasuke
's room in order to speak to
Kakashi
. Kakashi tells Naruto that someone better than he will train him as
Ebisu
 arrives and announces himself as Naruto's new trainer. Naruto complains why a man weaker than himself has to train him. Naruto tells Kakashi of when he
defeated Ebisu
 using his
Harem Technique
 but Ebisu covers his mouth, persuading him not to share the incident in exchange for treating Naruto to food.

After Kakashi leaves, Naruto complains about not wanting Ebisu as an instructor. Ebisu challenges Naruto to run away from him, and promises his resignation as Naruto's tutor if he escapes, adding that he would be able to take over some of Kakashi's duties, thus leaving Kakashi time to train Naruto himself. Naruto hastily agrees and proceeds to attempt to hide, although is easily found by Ebisu. Naruto resorts to using the
Transformation Technique
 to imitate a woman on a billboard sign but is again discovered by Ebisu. As a last resort, Naruto uses the
Shadow Clone Technique
 and they all run away in different directions. Ebisu, however, creates his own shadow clones and easily dispatches the shadow clones. Following a long chase, Ebisu finds the real Naruto.

Ebisu treats Naruto to ramen at
Ramen Ichiraku
. He then explains Naruto's usage of chakra and lack of chakra control, and compares him to Sakura and Sasuke, revealing that Sakura uses the exact amount necessary to cast a jutsu while Sasuke uses a little more than necessary, compared to Naruto who uses far more chakra than necessary to perform jutsu. Naruto counters that he's still able to pull off feats that Sasuke and Sakura cannot do, which Ebisu attests to the
Nine-Tailed Fox
's powers being accessible to Naruto. After eating, they head to the Hot Spring Town, and Ebisu tells Naruto that they will train here to master the
Water Surface Walking Practice
. Excited, Naruto attempts it, but falls into the water. He tries repeatedly but to no avail as he continuously falls into the water. As Naruto quickly begins to grasp the basics of the technique, Ebisu realises that he misunderstood him, and even thinks that he is an excellent
Konoha
 ninja.

Ebisu then sees a
white-haired man
 peeking into the women's changeroom and decides to attack him. The white haired man summons a frog and easily defeats Ebisu, who recognises the man before he is knocked out. Naruto, having witnessed the attack, is shocked that this stranger swiftly defeated his elite instructor.

Trivia

This is the last episode of the English dub aired on
Adult Swim
's
Toonami
, due to Shippūden continuing airing every week.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Maile Flanagan
Sasuke Uchiha
Noriaki Sugiyama
杉山 紀彰
Sugiyama Noriaki
Yuri Lowenthal
Sakura Haruno
Chie Nakamura
中村 千絵
Nakamura Chie
Kate Higgins
Kakashi Hatake
Kazuhiko Inoue
井上 和彦
Inoue Kazuhiko
Dave Wittenberg
Ebisu
Nobuo Tobita
飛田 展男
Tobita Nobuo
Crispin Freeman
Konohamaru
Ikue Otani
大谷 育江
Ōtani Ikue
Colleen O'Shaughnessey
Jiraiya
Hochu Otsuka
大塚 芳忠
Ōtsuka Hōchū
David Lodge
Teuchi
Eisuke Asakura
朝倉 栄介
Asakura Eisuke
Lex Lang
Ayame
Masayo Hosono
細野 雅世
Hosono Masayo
Danielle Judovits