The
Eight Trigrams Sealing Style
 is a
fūinjutsu
 of the
Uzumaki clan
.

Overview

A
Four Symbols Seal
 is used to seal a large enemy or an evil spirit into a target, such as an object or a human's body.
 A stronger seal is created if two Four Symbols Seal are used; this is called the Eight Trigrams Sealing Style. If the Four Symbols Seals do not completely overlap with each other, this allows the enemy/spirit's
chakra
 to merge with whoever they've been sealed into.
 In the anime, this seal is intended to encourage
tailed beasts
 to aid the
jinchūriki
 they've been sealed within, as the more they provide chakra, the weaker the seal becomes, and thus the better their chance of freedom.





The sealing altar.



Minato Namikaze
 used the Eight Trigrams Sealing Style to seal the
Nine-Tails
 into his infant son,
Naruto Uzumaki
. Before Minato performed the seal, he
summoned
 a ceremonial altar that he placed Naruto on.
 Naruto's seal is located on his abdomen, but only becomes visible when he uses the Nine-Tails' chakra.
 As an additional safety measure, Minato also sealed the chakra of himself and Naruto's mother,
Kushina Uzumaki
, into Naruto, who would appear before him under certain circumstances: Minato appears when the Nine-Tails nearly convinces Naruto to remove the seal, stops him from going through with it,
 and then reinforces the seal;
 Kushina appears when Naruto is trying to replace the Eight Trigrams Sealing Style with a
new seal
, and gives him the support he needs to tame the Nine-Tails.






The Nine-Tails within Naruto's subconscious.



When Naruto wants to speak to the Nine-Tails, he enters a subconscious plane that resembles an underground complex, with pipes running along the ceiling and various hallways. The floor is flooded with a shallow layer of water; the Nine-Tails' growing influence over Naruto is sometimes depicted as the water level rising. The Nine-Tails itself is separated from the rest of this complex by a large cage; the bars of the cage are far enough apart for Naruto to walk between them,
 but the Nine-Tails can only fit part of its claws through.
 The cage's doors are secured by a sheet of parchment with "seal" (
封
) written on it, behind which is the cage's lock.
 When the Nine-Tails sends its chakra to Naruto, a dark liquid leaks out from the cage towards him.






Naruto preparing the key to the seal.



Because the seal itself would naturally weaken over time, Minato created a key for it that can strengthen the seal when needed. He inscribed the key on the abdomen of the scroll
toad
,
Gerotora
, and sent it to
Jiraiya
 for safekeeping. Jiraiya, believing that Minato wanted Naruto to use the Nine-Tails against
some threat
, instead uses the key to slightly weaken the seal, giving Naruto greater access to the Nine-Tails' chakra.
 After this key is passed to Naruto, he uses it to remove the seal in preparation for replacing it with a stronger one.

Trivia

According to
Killer B
, this seal is of higher quality than the
Iron Armour Seal
.

In the manga, after
transferring
 the chakra of
Kurama
's Yin-half into an incapacitated Naruto Uzumaki,
Obito Uchiha
 was also shown reestablishing this seal.

In the anime,
Orochimaru
 suited
Mecha-Naruto
 with this seal in order to take the Nine-Tails from Naruto.

References