This is a secret taijutsu of the
Hyūga clan
's main house, traditionally only known by the head of the clan and the clan's heir.
Neji Hyūga
, a member of a branch house, was able to learn this technique through mere observation, a testament to his genius. The moment before the Hyūga is struck by an attack, they emit
chakra
 from all of their body's
tenketsu
 to block it. They then spin rapidly, repelling the attack (and anything else in the vicinity) away and creating a protective shield for as long as they continue to spin.
 The greater the force of an attack, the greater the force with which it's repelled.
 The user is capable of defending not only themselves but multiple people.

Revolving Heaven is meant to compensate for the blindspot of the Hyūga's
Byakugan
.
 But in this regard it is quite effective, leading
Tenten
 to describe it as an
absolute defence
 superior to the
Shield of Sand
.
 While normally a short-range manoeuvre, with greater skill one can increase both the range and momentum of the rotating chakra shield as
Hiashi Hyūga
 can repel attackers from several feet away and did so with such force that it ploughed the ground around him, cratering the terrain he was on save for the location he was standing at.
 The only effective means of countering the Revolving Heaven is to prevent the Hyūga from spinning;
 the anime sometimes depicts it being used without spinning.

Trivia

"Kaiten" (
回天
,
literally meaning:
 revolving heaven) is a term used to refer to turning the tides or fighting back up from a weak position. When written as "回転" (
kaiten
), it means "revolving" or "spinning".

In the anime, Revolving Heaven is shown to reach speeds of at least about 1200 km/h (745.6 mph). If an opponent can exceed this speed in the direction of the rotation, they can breach the defence.

In the anime, if the user does not have focus and precise chakra control when the Revolving Heaven is executed, the user will repel themselves out of the technique.

In the anime, the
Genjutsu World
's
Hinata Hyūga
 can use this technique.

See Also

Protecting Eight Trigrams Sixty-Four Palms

References