This article is about a shinobi of the Tsuchigumo clan. For a kekkei genkai collector, see
En Oyashiro
.

En no Gyōja
 (
役の行者
) was the former leader of the
Tsuchigumo Clan
 and the grandfather of
Hotaru
.

Background

During the
Third Shinobi World War
, he signed a peace treaty with
Hiruzen Sarutobi
. He developed
a technique capable of destroying an entire village
 which the Third
Hokage
 proclaimed a
kinjutsu
 because of its power. He had two known students in his life, and the first was a man named
Hāto
, who was brilliant and exceptionally skilled in ninjutsu; the second was his granddaughter, Hotaru.

Feeling that it was his fault the clan fell from glory, En no Gyōja became convinced that it was his duty to restore the clan. Before dying, his granddaughter, seeing how much his dream meant to him, begged En no Gyōja to seal the kinjutsu in her so she could continue his dream.

Appearance

En no Gyōja was an elderly man who had very long grey hair that forms into a moustache and beard. He also had small black eyes and wore a baggy tannish-coloured robe.

Abilities






En no Gyōja using his most devastating technique.



While the sheer abilities of En no Gyōja remain unknown, and his advanced age presumably hindered his prowess, En no Gyōja was powerful enough to be his clan's leader, and to create a
powerful technique
 that can destroy an entire village. He was also skilled in
fūinjutsu
, as he devised a way to seal the clan's kinjutsu in his granddaughter and safely remove it. His skills were apparently qualified enough to teach the talented
Hāto
.

Influence

The name of this character comes from the Japanese ascetic and mystic
En no Gyōja
 (
役行者
), the legendary founder of the Japanese religion
Shugendō
 (
修験道
,
literally meaning:
 The Way of Training and Testing). The real-life En no Gyōja was born in 634 and is venerated as a mountain saint and a bodhisattva. Many supernatural powers are attributed to him.

In the horror novel
Ring
 by Japanese author
Kōji Suzuki
, a statue of En no Gyōja gives supernatural powers, including precognition, to the mother of antagonist
Sadako Yamamura
. Sadako herself is born with the same powers, implying that En no Gyōja is her father. The famous horror film
Ring
 is based on this novel.

Trivia

"Gyōja" (
行者
) means "ascetic". En (
役
) is a surname. When pronounced as "eki", it means "war campaign" or "battle"; when pronounced as "yaku", it means "service", "role", or "use".