"
End
" (
終わり
,
Owari
) is chapter 609 of the original
Naruto
 manga.

Summary

As
Obito
 questions
Kakashi
 statement that he would protect
Naruto
, the Copy Ninja's sentiments are echoed by
Guy
, who is severely weakened. Seeing this,
Gyūki
 notes that all
Konoha
-nin liked to act tough before taking advantage of the loosened grip of its
wooden
 restraints, warning Naruto that the Wood Release binding could suppress a
tailed beasts
 power. Obito uses his own wood technique to attempt to restrain Naruto while he attacked Kakashi, but Naruto intercepts Tobi with a powerful headbutt, which sends him reeling. Gyūki then decides to attack the
Demonic Statue of the Outer Path
 before the
Ten-Tails
 could revive, leaving Obito to Naruto. Naruto declares that he can see Obito's suffering face, though Obito counters by saying it is Kakashi who is truly suffering. As Naruto notes that he had to do something for Kakashi, who was worn out,
Kurama
 switches places with Naruto, and throws the Copy Ninja at Obito who
warps
 him away to the
other dimension
, much to Naruto's shock. With no time to linger over this occurrence as Obito attacks, using Kamui to avoid Naruto's attack; he surprisingly starts to cough up blood. Kurama then reveals that Kakashi was attacking Obito from the other dimension and that it had given the shinobi some of its chakra when it threw him at Obito. As Kakashi returns to the real world thanking Kurama, Naruto and
Killer B
 both combined their
Tailed Beast Balls
 to create a massive sphere, firing it on the
barrier
 containing the Demonic Statue. After the explosion, they note that the statue's
chakra
 vanishes, causing Kakashi to question whether this is the end. However, when the smoke clears, the revived
Ten-Tails
 appears, prompting Obito to declare that it is was indeed the end of this world. Elsewhere, a now-recovered
Madara
, though disappointed that he did not capture the Eight, and Nine-Tails, notes that they should begin their plan.

Trivia

In this chapter, the wound that Obito dealt to Kakashi using the
shuriken
 is missing from Kakashi's torso. However, this is corrected next chapter.