This article is about the jinchūriki. For the Root member, see
Fū Yamanaka
.

Fū
 (
フウ
) was a
kunoichi
 from
Takigakure
 and the
jinchūriki
 of the Seven-Tails,
Chōmei
.

Background






Shibuki protects a young Fū.



At some point, Fū became the
jinchūriki
 of the Seven-Tails, Chōmei. In the manga, at some unspecified time either before
Gaara
's capture by
Deidara
,
 or some time in between Gaara's capture and the capture of
Yugito Nii
 by
Kakuzu
 and
Hidan
, Fū was captured by the
Akatsuki
, as after Yugito was sealed, according to
Pain
 only
three

tailed

beasts
 remained uncaptured,
 and she thusly died from having the Seven-Tails extracted from her body. In the anime, growing up in Takigakure as the village's jinchūriki, the village leader
Shibuki
 took great care in keeping Fū protected. He also taught Fū the importance of friendship and loyalty.

Personality

While seen with the other jinchūriki and
tailed beasts
, she appeared to be rather cheerful with a happy-go-lucky and somewhat carefree disposition; smiling as she recalled
Son Gokū
 and
Rōshi
's final moments before being sealed.
 She also uses 'ssu' (
っす
) at the end of her sentences — which is more commonly used by boys, giving her somewhat of a tomboyish demeanour. In the anime, Fū is shown to be somewhat of a troublemaker, as seen when she was summoned by Shibuki, she assumed she would be scolded for something that she did. Fū also appears to be easily bored.
 She is also noted to be somewhat like
Naruto Uzumaki
, being loud-mouthed and reckless in her actions. Also, unlike most jinchūriki, Fū is shown to be very friendly, open, and eager to make friends. Despite coming to the
Chūnin Exams
 where all were expected to compete against each other, Fū still wanted to play games with the others. Part of this desire stems from listening to Shibuki's teachings and wanting to help promote peace. In her love of having fun, Fū is also shown to be fearless, jumping into a sandstorm at night to fight a mysterious danger, seeing it only as exciting.

Appearance






Fū's full appearance.



Fū was a petite, tan-skinned kunoichi (with a slightly darker skin tone in the anime) who wore an orange clip in her short, layered mint green hair that matched her eye colour, which was also orange. Her ninja outfit consisted of a short sleeveless white midriff shirt with fishnet armour underneath, long white armlets, and fishnet shorts with a short white apron skirt over it. Her
forehead protector
 was worn on her right arm. Fū also carried a cylindrical object in red wrapping on her back, the purpose of which is unknown. After becoming part of Tobi's Six Paths of Pain, Fū's eyes appeared identical to his Sharingan and Rinnegan, except for her right eye that has the usual black sclerae like other reincarnated shinobi that Kabuto summoned.

Abilities






Fū effortlessly killing a giant scorpion.



Under
Shibuki
's tutelage in life, Fū became an extremely skilled shinobi with a high level of battle prowess, being able to effortlessly defeat a giant scorpion.
 During the race to Suna, she and her team easily outstripped all the others to arrive first. Surprise attacks are her speciality.
 After her
reincarnation
 and serving as one of Tobi's
Six Paths of Pain
, Fū was seen with both the Sharingan and Rinnegan. Combining the perceptual and predictive abilities of the former with the shared field of vision ability of the latter, allowed Fū to use her attacks in a more precise and coordinated fashion, as well as react well to enemy attacks more efficiently, both individually, and in conjunction with the other jinchūriki.

Ninjutsu






Fū using the Hiding in Scale Powder Technique.



Fū could exhale a sparkling substance from her mouth that
shines so brightly
 that it blinds her targets, creating an opening for herself or her allies to attack. In the anime, she can use a
transmission technique
, which allows her to communicate with her allies silently and at long range, with the technique making a howling wind-like sound.
 She can create webs that can
heal
 her allies without any contact or movement, and can use webs to  produce a
Net-Shaped Prison
 to ensnare and carry targets.
 She can also produce a
Cocoon
 that can slow down or halt
Chakra Absorption Techniques
.

Jinchūriki Transformations

Main article:
Jinchūriki Forms






Fū using Chōmei's tails as wings.



As
Chōmei
's
jinchūriki
, Fū is granted a significant amount of chakra and stamina from the beast. In the anime,
Shino Aburame
 noted that Fū's chakra signature is similar to a bug-style ninjutsu.
 The full extent of her control is unknown, but in the anime she could use a partial transformation to form her beast's tails as wings to fly on her lower back.
 She has demonstrated to be very nimble whilst in flight, being capable of outmanoeuvring several of Killer B's attacks.
 She can also attack her opponent with a
powerful bite
 upon entering a Version 2 mode.

Interlude

In Naruto's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths

Main article:
In Naruto's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths






Fū is allowed to enter the Chūnin Exams.



Wanting to make friends and tired of living a secluded lifestyle, Fū signed up for the joint Chūnin Exams being held in
Konohagakure
 and
Sunagakure
. When Shibuki was informed she had signed up, he was against the idea and feared people could learn about Fū's jinchūriki status. He ultimately gave in, hoping to use this event as an opportunity to help restore Takigakure's former glory. While Fū was delighted at this, Shibuki assigned
Kegon
 and
Yōrō
 to protect Fū by posing as her
genin
 teammates.






Fū communicates with her teammates.



Upon entering the Chūnin Exams, Fū and her teammates are randomly put into different rooms, with Fū being placed in room two. After settling in,
Shikamaru Nara
, explained that everyone only answer a question each, but their team's combined score must equal exactly 100 points to pass. During this time, Fū uses a
technique
 to communicate with her teammates, allowing them to tell each other which question they were going to pick.
 After time is up, Shikamaru revealed a bonus question that asked if a situation called for it, what team member you would leave to be a decoy, noting that while the answer had to unanimous, the person picked would be disqualified. She, like her teammates, did not answer, and ultimately her team passed the first round. However, a preliminary round was issued which involved a race to Sunagakure, where only the first 30 teams to arrive at the destination to  qualify for second phase to lessen the participants.






Fū's team about to enter Demon Desert.



Her team was the first to dash off into the race, ultimately arriving at the destination first.
 Later that night, Fū's bodyguards locked her in her room in fear of her reckless actions drawing too much attention. Despite this, Fū broke out and met the other fellow genin who were in a brawl. Displaying her hyperactive personality, it settled everyone down, leading them to dismiss to their rooms as dinner was ruined, much to her dismay. Later, when she found out that
Team Asuma
 were being attacked by a giant scorpion outside, Fū quickly ran to see it for herself. While wanting to have fun with it, Fū quickly
took down
 the beast, to save the captured genin. The following day, the second exam began, where each team would be given one of two scrolls. The objective of the exam was to survive in the
Demon Desert
 for three days and take the opposite scroll from an enemy team, and then the team had to make it to the desert area's main building.
 Some time into the second phase, Fū wanders off, quickly discovering
Gaara
's
Third Eye
, but thought nothing of it once it disappeared. Her teammates soon found her, calling her back.






Fū and her team attempt to reach the central tower.



Later, despite gaining both needed scrolls, Fū was determined to not end this exam before making some friends. She was convinced however to complete the exam when reminded she was taking the exams for Shibuki's sake. Soon afterwards, a massive sandstorm rampaged the area. Hearing people shouting for help, Fū quickly rushed out to find them. After saving a
Suna-nin genin team
, Fū was approached by Gaara himself. When asked why she saved an enemy team, Fū simply said she was doing as she was taught to make friends with people. After the genin team awoke, Fū offered them her scroll, saying she didn't need it anymore. They respectfully however declined, saying that Gaara, who stayed out of sight, taught them to persevere through their struggles. Accepting this, Fū left.

Later, while initially regrouping with her teammates/bodyguards, Fū sensed the distress of Gaara, realising that he was a jinchūriki as well and his tailed beast was being extracted. She quickly rushed off again to help him. Once arriving, Gaara told her to retreat, but Fū insisted that she understood his pain and wanted to help. She attempted to remove the
fūinjutsu chain
, only to be repelled by it. The caster,
Hōichi
, decided to test his
fūinjutsu
 on two jinchūriki at once and began extracting Chōmei from Fū.






Fū creates a cocoon to halt the tailed beast extraction.



Desperate to stop the extraction, Fū used her
Cocoon
 to slow down the process. While Gaara found this pointless as many people like Hōichi would prefer for Gaara to die, Fū insisted that he can keep making friends. Ultimately,
Team Guy
 and Fū's teammates arrived. Together, they were able to distract Hōichi while
Neji Hyūga
 got close to the jinchūriki. Using his
Gentle Fist
, he was able to block the chakra points in their body from where the extraction was taking place. This forced the chakra chains to be removed, which became Hōichi's undoing as they turned on the Suna-nin and bound him. With the crisis averted, Fū quickly approached Neji and asked him to be her friend, to which a flustered Neji agreed if she would let go of him.






Fū being confronted by Kakuzu and Hidan.



Ultimately, the Chūnin Exams were ended early before starting the finals due to controversy happening in the second exam. Sometime later,
Akatsuki
 members
Kakuzu
 and
Hidan
 tracked the team down to capture Fū. Fū was excited to befriend a fellow Taki shinobi, despite knowing the rogue shinobi's history. However, the rogue Kakuzu states their motives wasn't to become friends with her.
 Fū was subsequently captured, and had her tailed beast
extracted
 from her body and sealed within the
Demonic Statue of the Outer Path
, resulting in her death. Sometime after her death,
Kabuto Yakushi
 acquired some of her DNA, which he used to
reincarnate
 her.

Part II

Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation

Main article:
Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation






Fū reincarnated, alongside the other jinchūriki.



In preparation for the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, Fū was reincarnated by
Kabuto Yakushi
 to fight against the
Allied Shinobi Forces
, before being mobilised alongside the other deceased
jinchūriki
. As dawn broke on the second day of the war, it was revealed that
Tobi
 had turned the reincarnated jinchūriki into his own customised
Six Paths of Pain
, with each having a
Rinnegan
 and
Sharingan
 in place of their left and right eyes respectively. Each jinchūriki also had their particular tailed beast resealed within them and a
chakra receiver
 embedded into their body.

Fourth Shinobi World War: Climax

Main article:
Fourth Shinobi World War: Climax






Fū and the other jinchūriki confronting Naruto and B.



Fū later travelled together with Tobi, in pursuit of
Naruto Uzumaki
 and
Killer B
. Encountering their targets, the reincarnated jinchūriki were sent into battle. After the enemy evaded
Utakata
's
attack
, Fū attempted to obscure their vision with her
Hiden: Hiding in Scale Powder Technique
, concealing
Yugito Nii
 and
Han
's ambush. However, when this assault failed, she, like the others, unleashed the power of their
respective tailed beast
 by materialising two of its tails. Using these tails, which doubled as wings, she confronted B directly. Dodging his initial attacks with
Samehada
, Fū continued to narrowly evade both of B's
swords
, despite them being thrown from behind her. This feat was achieved thanks to her share field of vision with the other
Six Paths of Pain
 and Tobi, due to the Rinnegan.






Fū attacking Naruto.



Incapacitated in the wake of the
Eight-Tails
'
devastating attack
, after B's recent
transformation
, Fū was then restrained by the latter's
sealing technique
. However, before the sealing's completion, she manages to escape by adopting her
Version 2
 form, where she then proceeds to attack Naruto using her
Bug Bite
 technique. Regrouping with the other reincarnated jinchūriki, after
Kakashi Hatake
 and
Might Guy
's intervention, Fū charges towards Naruto but is instead intercepted by Guy's
powerful blow
. Rallying once again, she along with the other jinchūriki prepare to confront the two
Konohagakure

jōnin
, after Han's previous
attack
 is
thwarted
 by Kakashi.






Fū alongside the other transformed jinchūriki.



After
Son Gokū
 is resealed into the
Demonic Statue of the Outer Path
, Fū is forced to enter her full Seven-Tails form, as Tobi prepares to go all-out. Unleashing a
Tailed Beast Ball
 along with the others, the jinchūriki instead resort to a direct assault when these attacks are deflected by Naruto, only to then be repelled as the latter adopts his
Tailed Beast Mode
. In the resulting chaos, Fū was grabbed mid-flight by the Nine-Tails and sent plummeting to the ground, narrowly missing
Isobu
. With this, the rival beasts regroup and prepare a collaborative Tailed Beast Ball, launching it towards their opponents only for it to be diverted by an opposing one.






Fū, alongside other jinchūriki and tailed beasts, encounters Naruto.



When Naruto attempted to remove the opposition's chakra receivers in the ensuing blast, Naruto entered the joint consciousness of the tailed beasts, where he met Fū along with the other jinchūriki and their respective beasts. During this encounter, she happily recounted Son Gokū and
Rōshi
's final moments, before introducing herself to Naruto alongside her beast,
Chōmei
.

With the release of the Impure World Reincarnation, Fū and the others were enveloped in a light of sorts before their bodies started to deconstruct and her soul returned to the afterlife.

In Other Media

Video Games

Fū is a playable character in the following video games:

Game name
Japanese release
English release
Naruto Mobile
2016
2016
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Blazing
14 July 2016
24 August 2016
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 3
18 April 2013
5 March 2013
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 4
4 February 2016
9 February 2016
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm Revolution
11 September 2014
16 September 2014
Naruto x Boruto: Ultimate Ninja Storm Connections
16 November 2023
17 November 2023
Naruto: Shinobi Collection
2014
Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Online
14 April 2013
20 July 2016

Trivia

The name "Fū" can mean "seal" (
封
), "method", "style" or "wind" (
風
). It also the Japanese name for the Chinese
sweetgum
 (
楓
,
Liquidambar formosana
).

Masashi Kishimoto
 initially stated that he wasn't completely sure yet about the gender of this jinchūriki. Based on the concept art of Fū in
Road to Ninja: Naruto the Movie
, it would appear that Kishimoto has decided that Fū is a girl.

In the manga, Fū was possibly one of the jinchūriki that were captured by Akatsuki before Part II, who loathed humanity, due to being neglected and hated by her village, none of whom came to rescue her when she had been captured.

In order to prevent the jinchūriki from turning traitor, it is tradition for the host to be selected from the family of the village's own Kage. However, Takigakure does not have a Kage, just a village leader. Due to this, Fū may have been connected to one of the village leaders. In the anime, she was very close to the village head
Shibuki
; however, it's unknown if they were directly related.

Quotes

"
There's no word for defeat in Fū's dictionary!
"

References