This article is about the Fūma clan from the manga. For the anime-only Fūma clan from the Land of Sound, see
Fūma clan
.

The
Fūma Clan
 (
風魔一族
,
Fūma Ichizoku
) is a renowned ninja clan distantly related to the
Uchiha Clan
,
 famous in at least
Amegakure
 and the
Land of Fire
. They are well-known as an aggressive clan and fight using their characteristic giant
Fūma Shuriken
; a large, four-bladed weapon said to possess preeminent sharpness.

Overview

Though related to the Uchiha clan, members of the Fūma clan lack the
Sharingan
.

The type of shuriken they use has spread beyond the Fūma clan, as
Sasuke Uchiha
 used one during his fight with
Zabuza Momochi
 and several other shinobi have been seen using them since.

While travelling the world during his younger years,
Jiraiya
 faced a member of this clan in battle. Although the outcome of this battle is unknown, Jiraiya did manage to give this Fūma member a scar on his forehead. Years later, Jiraiya faced this same ninja again. This time, the Fūma member had been made into
one of Pain's bodies
. The scar on his head allowed Jiraiya to recognise him and subsequently all of
Pain
's
other bodies
 as well.

At some point after the
Uchiha Clan Downfall
 the Fūma were given authority over the
Konoha Military Police Force
 due to their distant blood relation to the Uchiha. In the new era,
Kōtarō Fūma
 has risen to the head of the Police Force.

Name

The name Fūma (
風魔
) literally means "Wind Demon" and comes from a real-life ninja clan founded by the legendary
Fūma Kotarō
. This Fūma Kotarō is said to have defeated and killed the equally legendary samurai
Hattori Hanzō
 (who gave his name to
Hanzō
, who was in turn defeated and killed by Pain).

Trivia

Another Fūma clan
 is featured in the anime. It is unknown whether the Fūma clan from the anime and the manga are the same, but it is unlikely, since the names are written differently and the clans' descriptions differ.

Some Ame shinobi speculate that Pain hails from this clan.
 In reality, one of their clansmen was used as one of Nagato's bodies.

References