This article is about the episode. For the shinobi, see
Nowaki
.

"
Fūshin
" (
風心
,
Fūshin
) is episode 486 of the
Naruto: Shippūden
 anime.

Synopsis

Sasuke
 uses the
Sharingan
 to stop the exploding human.
Orochimaru
 muses on Sasuke using it to save someone's life, while
En Oyashiro
 watches him from afar, interested. More members of the audience start to display signs of being exploding humans.
Yamato
 arrives, assuring Sasuke they can't all be saved, so they should try lessening the damage, as he encases a nearby exploding human in wood. Orochimaru himself smothers an explosion with his snakes. Sasuke dodges a chakra-enhanced knife thrown at him, that explodes when it hits the floor. Sasuke begins following his assailant, but chooses to rescue
Chino
 from an explosion instead.
 Chino expresses surprise at Sasuke's decision. They're joined by
Nowaki
, and Yamato, who confirms to Sasuke those are the same exploding humans that attacked Konoha. Yamato leaves, and Orochimaru tells them En Oyashiro won't stick around after such a commotion. A Coliseum employee informs Orochimaru that En is interested in meeting Sasuke. The two meet En, and are unimpressed by him. Orochimaru questions why someone so secretive would reveal himself to them.

En tells them he's heard from the attack on Konoha, and speculates that was done to target Sasuke, as he was also attacked in the Coliseum. Sasuke asks about
Fūshin
, En tells him he won Fūshin at the Coliseum, having heard Fūshin was born in the
Land of Water
, and being sold off because others feared his
kekkei genkai
, though he himself admires kekkei genkai for their rarity and power. He says one day, Fūshin ran away with other kekkei genkai users of his guard. Sasuke asks if Fūshin had red eyes, En answers
one
 of the guards who left with Fūshin did, who hailed from the
Chinoike clan
, and wielded the
Ketsuryūgan
. Originally from the
Land of Lightning
, before
Hashirama
 and
Madara
 competed for power, a woman from the Chinoike clan was sent to be a concubine for the daimyō, which caused jealousy in his wife. He died shortly after, and the wife accused the concubine of being responsible. With the clan's reputation, they were exiled to the Valley of Hell, the wife hiring the
Uchiha clan
 to do it, as their Sharingan allowed them to go up against the Ketsuryūgan. The Chinoike asked to negotiate with the Uchiha, but they refused.

Sasuke wonders if Itachi knew about this, but Orochimaru has no idea. Sasuke asks En where the Valley of Hell is, being told is in the
Land of Hot Water
. Orochimaru finds En's forthcoming strange, and he explains that if such an explosive became commonplace, he'd be driven out of business. Sasuke, Chino and Nowaki go to the Land of Hot Water. The three come across a large group of exploding humans, that Sasuke quickly puts to sleep. Sasuke blocks another chakra-enhanced knife with
Susanoo
. Sasuke pursues an assailant who keeps throwing knives, but those aren't chakra-enhanced. Sasuke uses one of them to break end the pursuit, though it's not Fūshin. He attacks Sasuke with earth walls and rubber balls. Sasuke makes short work of him with Amaterasu, and puts it out to check his memories with the Sharingan. He learns Nowaki is Fūshin, who shows himself before Sasuke. Sasuke figured as much from the chakra blade he deflected being the same used against him in the
Bamboo Village
. Sasuke asks Fūshin to show his real appearance, and Fūshin complies.

Trivia

In this episode, Sasuke is seen using
Amaterasu
 with his right eye, although he always uses it with the left.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Sasuke Uchiha
Noriaki Sugiyama
杉山 紀彰
Sugiyama Noriaki
Yuri Lowenthal
Chino
Ai Kakuma
加隈 亜衣
Kakuma Ai
Xanthe Huyhn
Nowaki
Kosuke Goto
後藤 光祐
Gotō Kōsuke
Ray Chase
Fūshin
Daichi Endo
遠藤 大智
Endō Daichi
Ray Chase
Yamato
Rikiya Koyama
小山 力也
Koyama Rikiya
Matthew Mercer
Orochimaru
Kujira
くじら
Kujira
Steve Blum
En Oyashiro
Takuya Kirimoto
桐本 拓哉
Kirimoto Takuya
Greg Chun
Ring announcer
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Grant George
Karyū
Yo Tokinaga
時永 洋
Tokinaga Yō
Kirk Thornton
President Makibi
Minoru Kawai
河合 みのる
Kawai Minoru
Skip Stellrecht
Coliseum's spectator
Mariko Higashiuchi
東内 マリ子
Higashiuchi Mariko
Colleen O'Shaughnessey