"
Farewell
" (
別れ
,
Wakare
) is episode 293 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Naruto
 thinks back to
Boruto
's life as he tries to wake him up in vain.
Code
 is surprised by Boruto's death at
Kawaki
's hand, and the return of his
Kāma
.
Ada
 warns him against considering sacrificing Kawaki in Boruto's place for the
God Tree
. Code threatens to kill
Shikamaru
 if Kawaki approaches. Kawaki is indifferent, so Code releases Shikamaru and tries to escape. Kawaki stops him by
shrinking
 his
Claw Marks
 so Code can't use them. Kawaki mocks Code, pointing out that killing Boruto should make it clear the lengths he'll go through to protect Naruto. He goes on the offensive and pressures Code. Shikamaru goes to check on Naruto, still in disbelief and denial of what happened, and stresses that the battle still isn't over. Kawaki tells Code that if the person who wants to meet him is also against Naruto, he won't show them any mercy either, and
blasts
 him point blank. Kawaki is knocked out, Code having pulled
Daemon
 through the Claw Mark on his head to
reflect
 the attack. Ada is angry that Code involved Daemon without her permission, and he apologises for waking him up. Daemon wants to fight, but Code sends him back to Ada.
 She warns him he's been doing whatever he wants a lot, and stresses that Kawaki better be ok. Code tells her she can
see
 Kawaki herself, and she assures him that had Kawaki died, she'd send Daemon to kill him. Code begrudgingly admits he's not strong enough to overcome Kawaki at the moment. Shikamaru tries
pinning
 him when he moves to collect Kawaki, and says reinforcements are on the way. Code thinks it's a bluff, but is unwilling to risk it when Shikamaru points out that fighting Kawaki exhausted him. Code leaves, wanting Shikamaru to inform
Amado
 he'll use him to have his limiters removed. Shikamaru asks Naruto what precautions should be taken with Kawaki, considering the lengths he'll go to protect Naruto. Naruto refuses to blame Kawaki. Shikamaru struggles to believe Naruto doesn't blame Kawaki for Boruto's death. Boruto moves and asks who's dead, to their shock. Naruto cries in joy and hugs him. Boruto has new markings on his torso, and
Momoshiki
 communicates with him. Momoshiki explains that as his vessel, Boruto is the anchor of his soul, and his death would extinguish him like
Isshiki
. He reveals he had to use the still unextracted portion of his Kāma to reconstruct the destroyed portions of Boruto's body. Because of that, Momoshiki can no longer resurrect through Kāma. Boruto believes this means he wins, but Momoshiki points out that the full extraction of Kāma means he's fully Ōtsutsuki now, so he can be sacrificed to grow a God Tree, something Code will realise soon. Momoshiki adds that Boruto won't be revived like that again, and Boruto points out he was wrong before, recalling his previous warnings. Momoshiki laughs, saying the two matters are unrelated, eagerly waiting for it to play out. Boruto explains the nature of his resurrection to Naruto and Shikamaru. Ada notifies Code of these developments. She reminds Code of the terms of their deal, and warns that if he remains useless after his limiters are removed, or if she determines him to be a nuisance, she'll have no qualms disposing of him. He assures her that he has already taken measures. Kawaki wakes up in the hospital,
Sumire
 taking care of him. He wonders why he's not imprisoned for killing Boruto, and Sumire reveals he's fine. Kawaki comments on Amado having restored his Kāma, and admits that for the first time he was glad to have it, needing it as otherwise Naruto would be dead. Boruto and Kawaki later talk at the
Hokage Rock
, discussing what "everything" means to each of them. Kawaki is determined to eliminate threats to Naruto, and Boruto is determined to prove Momoshiki wrong. A flashforward shows the start of their fight on the Hokage Rock.

Trivia

This is the final episode of the first part of the Boruto anime.

Unlike its predecessors, a preview for the succeeding anime is not included.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Kawaki
Yuma Uchida
内田 雄馬
Uchida Yūma
Naruto
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Shikamaru
Shotaro Morikubo
森久保 祥太郎
Morikubo Shōtarō
Sumire
Aya Endo
遠藤 綾
Endō Aya
Code
Junta Terashima
寺島 惇太
Terashima Junta
Ada
Kana Hanazawa
花澤 香菜
Hanazawa Kana
Daemon
Yumiri Hanamori
花守 ゆみり
Hanamori Yumiri
Momoshiki
Daisuke Namikawa
浪川 大輔
Namikawa Daisuke