This article uses
Creative Commons licensed
 content from
revision 160874257
 of
Wikipedia
's
List of Naruto episodes (seasons 5–6)
 article.

The list of authors can be seen in the
page history
 there.

"
Father and Son, the Broken Crest
" (
父と子　ひび割れた家紋
,
Chichi to Ko Hibiwareta Kamon
) is episode 130 of the original
Naruto
 anime.

Synopsis

Naruto
 rises from
Sasuke
's attack and taunts him to use the
Sharingan
, as he would still be defeated by the power of his
Nindō
. Naruto creates shadow clones to fight him, but they’re taken care of in a matter of seconds. Sasuke then uses the
Great Fireball Technique
.

As his recollection of his childhood continued,
Itachi
's standing in the clan began to falter due to his apparent turning against them. As such,
Fugaku
 started taking a more active interest in Sasuke's development. To give Sasuke proper membership into the clan, his father taught him the Great Fireball Technique, which he rapidly mastered after constant practice. As Sasuke spent more time with him, Fugaku told him not to follow in Itachi's footsteps, the former prodigy having lost the clan's confidence. Finally getting recognition, Sasuke put even more time into training, determined to become better than Itachi.

Having trouble with his Shuriken Jutsu, Sasuke asks Itachi to help train him as his brother heads out the house. He replies that he’s busy, before tapping Sasuke’s forehead. Watching him leave, Sasuke’s glad he seemingly hasn’t changed too much. Later, he asks his father about Sharingan, wanting to master it as well. Fugaku tells him about the
Mangekyo Sharingan
, that only two members of the Uchiha Clan have possessed so far. It’s activated only under very specific circumstances.

Back in the present, Naruto hides behind a bush while Sasuke coaxes him about his naivety. He lands multiple punches and a final crushing blow to Naruto’s ribs before he’s plummeted into the water beneath them.

Trivia

At the beginning of the episode, Naruto is near to the statues, with Sasuke opposite. After Sasuke activates his Sharingan and the scene changes, the two have switched places and also Sasuke has changed his hairstyle too.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Maile Flanagan
Sasuke Uchiha
Noriaki Sugiyama
杉山 紀彰
Sugiyama Noriaki
Yuri Lowenthal
Fugaku Uchiha
Kenji Hamada
浜田 賢二
Hamada Kenji
Doug Stone
Mikoto Uchiha
Emi Sagara
さがら えみ
Sagara Emi
Kari Wahlgren