"
Father and Child
" (
父と子
,
Chichi to Ko
) is episode 65 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

The shinobi are horrified by
Momoshiki
's consuming of
Kinshiki
 for power, who replies it was the former's wish, and law within their clan. Momoshiki releases a pulse of energy that cuts clean through the
God Tree
, and pushes everyone back. Momoshiki flies towards
Darui
 and
Gaara
, kicking Darui away before he can react. Gaara manages to catch Momoshiki with his
sand
, but Momoshiki uses his hair to
bind
 and strangle him, loosing Gaara's grip on him, allowing Momoshiki to toss him aside. Momoshiki proceeds to knock out
Chōjūrō
 and
Kurotsuchi
. Momoshiki targets
Naruto
, and the two engage with
taijutsu
, and the latter gains the upper hand when he strikes Naruto's
tenketsu
.
Sasuke
 attacks Momoshiki, who evades his attack, counterattacks, and rams both Naruto and Sasuke on the ground, throwing them against the remains of the God Tree. Naruto and Sasuke go on the offensive, activating their chakra mode and dōjutsu respectively, and
Momoshiki
manifests a weapon
 to counter them. Sasuke unseals a
fūma shuriken
, which he electrifies, and guides at Momoshiki with wires. Naruto
multiplies them
. Momoshiki dodges some, but as he begins to get hit, he unleashes an energy pulse to repel them. Momoshiki narrowly avoids a fūma shuriken that comes from underground, breaking through the God Tree stump they're fighting on. The fūma shuriken is a transformed Naruto, who throws a
Rasenshuriken
 at Momoshiki. Just before it hits, the Rasenshuriken transforms back into Sasuke. Momoshiki binds Sasuke with manifested chains, but Sasuke
switches places
 with Momoshiki, leaving him bound and open to a strike by Naruto. Sasuke uses the opportunity to trap Momoshiki with
Chibaku Tensei
. Momoshiki breaks free by manifesting a
wooden dragon
, which Naruto and Sasuke break. Momoshiki lands on the God Tree stump, using it to manifest more wooden dragons. One of them catches Sasuke, and Momoshiki channels an explosion through it. Naruto manifests
Kurama
 and protects Sasuke. Momoshiki coalesces the rocks around into a
monkey
 in retaliation. Sasuke
armours
 Naruto with Susanoo, and they
cut
 through Momoshiki's monkey.
Boruto
 watches the fight in awe. Naruto and Sasuke power down, and the other Kage ask if they're done. Kurotsuchi wants to use a flashy jutsu to end him, but Chōjūrō and Gaara point out he'd absorb them and regain strength.
Katasuke
 arrives with
Kōsuke
, and against the others' warnings, fires several ninjutsu at Momoshiki with the
Shinobi Gauntlet
. Momoshiki absorbs them, regaining strength, and uses the absorbed jutsu against them. Gaara protects the group with his sand, but before they can strike back, Momoshiki paralyses them with an absorbed
Nara
 shadow ninjutsu, and for extra measure, pins Naruto down with
black receivers
. Boruto remembers Sasuke's words from before, and on Sasuke's command,
throws his Rasengan
. Naruto wonders when Boruto learned it, while Momoshiki thinks he should have stayed out of sight. He prepares to absorb it, but it vanishes before reaching him, so he turns his attention back to the shinobi. Boruto's attack connects, breaking Momoshiki's hold on the others. Sasuke explains to Naruto how he trained Boruto on the condition he learned the
Rasengan
. Momoshiki consumes more chakra pills to power up for decisive attack. Naruto tells Boruto to make another Rasengan, and adds his chakra to enlarge it. Sasuke distracts Momoshiki, throwing his sword and switching places with it to get close. Sasuke's sword is a transformed Boruto, who throws a kunai. Momoshiki catches it, and Sasuke switches it with his
Chidori
, so Momoshiki strikes his own arm, while Sasuke uses the kunai to stab the
Rinnegan
 on his hand, preventing him from using it to absorb jutsu. Boruto uses clones to distract Momoshiki, allowing his real self to attack with the Naruto-powered Rasengan. Momoshiki counters with a similar attack, but Boruto prevails. As his body is destroyed, Momoshiki's spirit talks to Boruto, recognising that he strongly inherited Ōtsutsuki powers. He gives Boruto a cryptic information about his future and a warning him that his victory means he can't stay an ordinary human, grabbing his arm before disappearing. Katasuke is confused about recent events, unsure of what happened. Momoshiki's chakra receivers vanish. Sasuke and Naruto talk about their previous conversation about the nature of shinobi.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Amanda Céline Miller
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Maile Flanagan
Sasuke Uchiha
Noriaki Sugiyama
杉山 紀彰
Sugiyama Noriaki
Yuri Lowenthal
Kurama
Tessho Genda
玄田 哲章
Genda Tesshō
Paul St. Peter
Gaara
Akira Ishida
石田 彰
Ishida Akira
Liam O'Brien
Chōjūrō
Koki Miyata
宮田 幸季
Miyata Kōki
Brian Beacock
Kurotsuchi
Hana Takeda
武田 華
Takeda Hana
Cherami Leigh
Darui
Ryota Takeuchi
竹内 良太
Takeuchi Ryōta
Catero Colbert
Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki
Daisuke Namikawa
浪川 大輔
Namikawa Daisuke
Xander Mobus
Katasuke Tōno
Taira Kikumoto
菊本 平
Kikumoto Taira
Christopher Corey Smith
Katasuke's subordinate
Katsunori Okai
岡井 カツノリ
Okai Katsunori