"
Fireworks of Love
" (
恋の打ち上げ花火
,
Koi no Uchiage Hanabi
) is episode 260 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Boruto
 helps
Kakashi
, who claims to have a bad back, running some errands in
Konoha
. While treating Boruto to dango, they overhear two
elderly

men
 arguing. Boruto wonders if they should interfere, but Kakashi argues against it. Boruto wonders if he was really a
Hokage
, and Kakashi says he has had his fill of mediating fights with
Naruto
 and
Sasuke
. When more people join the old men's argument, Boruto tries breaking them up. One of the man's grandson and the other's granddaughter also try stopping the fight, before both sides decide to leave. As he leaves, the girl's grandfather knocks Kakashi's tea, spilling it on his face. He is unfazed by it. The girl apologises and gives them a complementary dish. Boruto asks what the fight was about. She explains that a rivalry developed over setting off festival fireworks between people of the old town and the new city. Boruto noticed the interaction between
Yubeshi
 and
Sabure
, and she confesses they're planning to get married, having already picked a date, but with all the arguing, they haven't been able to inform their grandfathers.
 Kakashi was reading an
Icha Icha
 volume, but heard Yubeshi, and compares her story to what happened in volume 5 of the series, though he doesn't know how it ended, its intensity caused many readers to pass out, so it was removed from the book after the first edition. Yubeshi shows Kakashi her first edition copy of that volume, which she considered throwing away after being unable to sell it at the flea market. She asks Kakashi to sort the situation between their grandfathers before giving it to him. They visit Taruto's pastry shop, and Kakashi deduces from photos and covered menus that he and Ohagi were close for a long time, and remained so until rather recently. He asks them to leave. Sabure checks on them, and explains how their fight started when Taruto, who used to participate in old town's fireworks display with Ohagi, was put in charge of new city's display when they decided to start one. Kakashi left while Boruto was listening to Sabure, leaving a note that he has more shopping to do and leaving the situation to Boruto. Boruto goes back to Ohagi's dango shop to get him to talk to Taruto. Boruto gathers everyone to talk about the dispute, including Kakashi. They argue until Boruto signals for Sabure and Yubeshi to bring in the dango cakes that Ohagi and Taruto developed together. Boruto thinks this might remind them of their friendship, but it only underlines the time period of when the dispute began. Kakashi suggests that Yubeshi and Sabure elope, but they want their grandfathers to celebrate with them. Since they can't make peace over it, Kakashi suggests turning it into a competition on the day of the festival, with the winner being responsible for the fireworks from then on. Sabure, Yubeshi, and Boruto are unsure of it, but Kakashi is confident in his plan, and disappears as both sides begin making preparations. Someone mentions to the new city group that the weather is perfect for fireworks that day, with no clouds in the sky, though no one knows who that is. When the fireworks start, Yubeshi and Sabure recognise something about the display. So do Ohagi and Taruto, who wish to stop the fireworks, but can't. Kakashi switched new city's and old town's fireworks, so each side was actually mocking their own fireworks, causing them to lose heart about the rivalry. Later, Kakashi asks Taruto and Ohagi who was the winner, and Sabure and Yubeshi urge them to make up, pointing out they no longer seem to have fun setting up the fireworks, and that they can't get married with them fighting. Their grandfathers are surprised by it, and realising what they put their grandchildren though, make up. The next day, Boruto puts soothing bandages on Kakashi's back, which is hurting from moving the heavy fireworks around. Kakashi also got Yubeshi's first edition Icha Icha volume, but is taking his time reading it so he can enjoy it. Sabure and Yubeshi get married, with their grandfathers in attendance.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Kakashi Hatake
Kazuhiko Inoue
井上 和彦
Inoue Kazuhiko
Ohagi
Issei Futamata
二又 一成
Futamata Issei
Yubeshi
Madoka Yonezawa
米澤 円
Yonezawa Madoka
Taruto
Masaharu Sato
佐藤 正治
Satō Masaharu
Sabure
Ryu Morimiya
森宮 隆
Morimiya Ryū
Konoha townspeople
Kosuke Katayama
Ryo Nishitani
Aoi Inase
Ryuichi Kijima
Kazuya Saji
Katsunori Okai
Juri Nagatsuma
Atsushi Abe
Shinya Hamazoe
Kokoro Kikuchi
Hirokazu Sekido
Kumi Takaragi
Chihiro Ikki
Natsumi Yamada
片山 公輔
西谷 亮
いなせ あおい
木島 隆一
佐治 和也
岡井 カツノリ
長妻 樹里
阿部 敦
浜添 伸也
菊池 こころ
関戸 博一
宝木 久美
一木 千洋
山田 奈都美
Katayama Kōsuke
Nishitani Ryō
Inase Aoi
Kijima Ryūichi
Saji Kazuya
Okai Katsunori
Nagatsuma Juri
Abe Atsushi
Hamazoe Shin'ya
Kikuchi Kokoro
Sekido Hirokazu
Takaragi Kumi
Ikki Chihiro
Yamada Natsumi