The
First Division
 (
第一部隊
,
Daiichi Butai
,
Viz:
 First Company), also known as the
Mid-Range Battle Division
 (
戦闘中距離部隊
,
Sentō Chūkyori Butai
,
English TV:
 Mid-Range Battle Unit), was a battalion in the
Allied Shinobi Forces
 led by
Darui
 of
Kumogakure
, formed in preparation for the
Fourth Shinobi World War
.

Composition

The First Division is composed of several thousands of shinobi and samurai alike who mainly focus on mid-range combat. According to
Shikamaru Nara
 in the anime, it is mainly made up of shinobi who specialise in
bukijutsu
.
 The anime also shows three sub-divisions which are specialised in the usage of the chakra natures
fire
,
water
 and
earth
.

History






The First Division faces off against the White Zetsu Army.



Upon its formation, the First Division is mobilised to the western coast of the
Land of Lightning
. Because an enemy attack is inevitable, the First Division fortifies the beachhead and stations its forces along the cliffs. A contingent of
White Zetsu Army
 clones and numerous
reincarnated
 shinobi soon emerge from the nearby ocean. After the two sides face off, Darui makes the first move with his
Lightning Release: Black Panther
, electrocuting dozens of the Zetsu. The rest of the division attacks as well, bombarding the approaching Zetsu with kunai and engaging those that slip past in close combat;
Hiashi Hyūga
 is drawn into combat with his dead brother,
Hizashi
, and
Chōza Akimichi

increases his size
 to combat the likes of
Dan
 and
Asuma Sarutobi
.
Kakuzu
 goes after several First Division members, whom he preys upon with his
Earth Grudge Fear
.






Darui sealing Ginkaku in the Benihisago.



Darui confronts the
Gold and Silver Brothers
, two criminals from
Kumogakure
's past.
 Because the brothers wield four of the
Treasured Tools of the Sage of Six Paths
,
Samui
 and
Atsui
 provide Darui with backup. Both are quickly trapped in the brothers'
Benihisago
, but their capture allows Darui to learn how the Treasured Tools work. Darui is able to take the Benihisago and the
Shichiseiken
 from the brothers and with his acquired knowledge, he then uses the Benihisago to capture
Ginkaku
.
Kinkaku
 becomes enraged by this and enters a
six tailed-form
. Using the strength and the large tail he gains in this form, Kinkaku storms through the First Division, killing hundreds and destroying much of the battlefield.






Darui sealing Kinkaku in the Kohaku no Jōhei.



When the
Fourth Raikage
 learned of Ginkaku and Kinkaku's presence, he expected trouble and planned ahead. Now that none of the First Division can handle Kinkaku he implements several of the backup plans he prepared for the brothers. He first
sends
 the fifth Treasured Tool, the
Kohaku no Jōhei
, to Darui, to be used to seal Kinkaku. Reinforcements that he summoned from the
Second
,
Fourth
, and
Fifth Divisions
 also arrive and quickly join in on the defence against Kinkaku.
Formation Ino–Shika–Chō
 then teams up with Darui and seals Kinkaku into the pot, finally defeating the Gold and Silver Brothers.

With the biggest threat dealt with, the combined forces begin focusing on the other reincarnated shinobi: Chōza leads a small group in trying to
capture
 Dan; Darui,
Kotetsu Hagane
, and
Izumo Kamizuki
 go after Kakuzu while others go after his elemental masks; Ino–Shika–Chō fights Asuma;
Kitsuchi
, leader of the Second Division, focuses on eliminating the remaining Zetsu. Ino–Shika–Chō - students of Asuma during his lifetime - initially struggles to defeat him.
Chōji Akimichi
 is able to gain the upper hand by entering a
gigantic form
, allowing the
Sealing Team
 to restrain Asuma. Chōji goes on to prove instrumental with the rest of the battle, pinning Kakuzu and helping Hiashi capture Hizashi. Chōza succeeds in catching Dan, Kakuzu's masks are destroyed, and Kitsuchi defeats the last Zetsu.






The Demonic Statue of the Outer Path is summoned into the battlefield.



As night falls,
Tobi
 appears on the battlefield and summons the
Demonic Statue of the Outer Path
. Chōji and Chōza join forces against it but it easily flings them back, in the process killing many Allied shinobi. In the ensuing chaos Dan's confinements are destroyed, but the Sealing Team is able to neutralise Kakuzu. While the Statue rampages across the battlefield, Tobi takes the Benihisago and the Kohaku no Jōhei. Darui and Shikamaru surmise that he plans to use the Gold and Silver Brothers' demon fox chakra and so try to stop him. The Statue attacks them both, giving Tobi a chance to escape. He takes the Statue with him. As night falls the forces fell back.






Naruto arrives to aid the First Division.



After learning of the true threat of the White Zetsu's, they devised a way to keep others away by drawing circles around themselves using kunai, and to consider anyone who enters them as a foe. With this done, they waited for
Naruto
 to arrive and identify the
hidden
 enemy amongst them.

From later reports at headquarters, the First Division was able to successfully annihilate their opponents and were instructed to assist
Naruto
 and
Killer B
 once they were finished. Eventually, the division meets up with the rest of the Allied Shinobi Forces to fight against the
Ten-Tails
 under the command of
Madara Uchiha
 and
Obito Uchiha
.

References