Fission beings
 (
分裂体
,
Bunretsutai
),
 are smaller replicas of a
Ten-Tails
 produced through its biological ability to perform
fission
.

Variations

Ten-Tails Fission





Various fission beings produced by Earth's Ten-Tails.



Fission beings are extruded from the main body of a Ten-Tails, dividing pieces of itself into creatures of various shapes and sizes, broadly falling into a handful of distinct types. While most of these types are bipedal and humanoid, some take on a more bestial, quadrupedal form, and many have appendages that resemble weapons. Their sizes vary greatly, ranging from about the height of an adult human up to the that of a fully grown
summoned creature
. They physically resemble the parent Ten-Tails and have mouths and teeth, but lack eyes.

Among those produced by the
Ten-Tails
 fought during the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, most were roughly the size and shape of an adult male human, with extremely long arms that had axe- or sickle-shaped blades protruding from their forearms. Others were about half that size and stocky, with spear-like appendages in place of forearms. Larger variants produced by this specimen ranged from about three times the height of an adult human up to the height of summoned creature, with a brutish physique with rotund stomachs. Many held
yawara
 in each hand, while others carried spears or had sickles in place of forearms, and some even created spiked-shields. It also created a number of fission beings that superficially resembled wolves, being quadrupedal with tails, large angular heads, and mouths so wide that they extend nearly to the shoulder. In general these fission beings had two horns curving back from their foreheads, rictus mouths filled with sharp teeth, and spines covering their chest, shoulders, and backs.

Claw Grime





Claw Grimes using Claw Marks.



Using the
Claw Mark
,
Code
 wraps his markings around the flesh of Kara's
Ten-Tails
, splitting small portions off to create humanoid soldiers which he calls
Claw Grime
 (
爪アカ
,
Tsumeaka
). Unlike the Fission Beings from the Fourth Shinobi World War, however, the Grimes can manifest the
Rinnegan
 and can be capable of speech to an extent. Due to Code's enhancements, the Grimes can use the marks on each other to travel. Like the Ten-Tails, the Claw Grime have an instinct to consume others, turning into miniature
God Tree
 versions alongside with those they bite. The Claw Grime at their peak were said to potentially number in the thousands.

Human God Tree

Main article:
Human God Tree





Sentient God Trees.



After Code finished fragmenting Kara's Ten-Tails, the remains eventually became
Jura
, a direct incarnation of the Ten-Tails. Similarly, after a Claw Grime consumes a person and sprouts into a small tree, in time the syphoned chakra will produce a humanoid being that mimics aspects of the victim's appearance and gain their abilities. Unlike a Ten-Tails and the standard Claw Grimes, these evolved versions possess self-awareness. Boruto speculates that because Code's White Kāma is an aspect of Isshiki's power, its Ōtsutsuki chakra triggered the Claw Grimes' evolution.
 Once fully awakened, the instinctive need of the self-proclaimed God Trees to consume an Ōtsutsuki and become a true God Tree is temporarily overridden by their newfound curiosity and desire to acquire new knowledge.

References