The map of the Shinobi World. The Five Great Shinobi Countries are denoted by larger kanji.



The
Five Great Shinobi Countries
 (
忍び五大国
,
Shinobi Godaikoku
,
English TV:
 Five Great Shinobi Nations) are the
world
's five largest countries and the main focus of the
Naruto
 series. These countries are led by governmental leaders known as
daimyō
, who are in charge of ruling their individual nations solely through a monarch-like government. These countries are divided equally on an unknown continent to create balance in the
Shinobi
 world. They are the
Land of Earth
 in the Northwest, the
Land of Lightning
 in the Northeast, the
Land of Water
 in the East, the
Land of Wind
 in the Southwest, and the
Land of Fire
 in the centre. The countries are named after the dominant
chakra nature
 of each of the areas.

These superpowers are the major players in the politics and trade between the shinobi nations. They are the most powerful of all nations and each has an extremely powerful shinobi village. The Land of Earth has
Iwagakure
, the Land of Lightning has
Kumogakure
, the Land of Water has
Kirigakure
, the Land of Wind has
Sunagakure
, and the Land of Fire has
Konohagakure
. These five villages are the only ones to have a
Kage
 as the
village head
.

Although the Five Great Shinobi Countries are equal enough in power and military strength to create a fairly stable balance of power, the Land of Fire is considered the most powerful and influential. Similarly, the Land of Fire's shinobi village, Konohagakure, is considered the most powerful of all shinobi villages and Konoha's
Hokage
 has been considered to be the pinnacle of the shinobi world.

The five countries were
allied together
, along with the
samurai
 of the
Land of Iron
, to stop
Tobi
's
Eye of the Moon Plan
 in the
Fourth Shinobi World War
. After the war, as shown with
Naruto
 as the Seventh Hokage, it appears that the five countries continued to have maintained a strong form of prosperous peace and fellowship between one another with both the present and retired Kage exemplifying them during their meeting.

Following the aftermath of the Fourth Shinobi World War, the Five Great Shinobi Countries were able to finally put aside their differences and remain great allies, able to discuss anything without prejudice clouding their judgement, forming the
Shinobi Union
.

References