A
flak jacket
 is an item of protective clothing popular among ninja. Flak jackets have several pockets and pouches that can be used to store and quickly access weapons and other supplies. When on missions, they provide at least partial protection from damage by blunt-force trauma, shrapnel, other projectiles, and even blades.
 Flak jackets started being worn around the time of the
First Shinobi World War
, replacing the
plate armour
 common during the
Warring States Period
. They can be worn by ninja of every rank, but are mostly worn by
chūnin
 rank or higher.

Styles

Each
hidden village
, nation, and several other armed factions has their own design or designs of flak jacket.

Jacket

Group

Description

Konohagakure
,
Sunagakure
,
Amegakure
, and
Kumogakure

Worn after the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, these flak jackets are green. They are simple chest-guards covering the torso and lower groin that come with clipped-on shoulder pads with high-collars and a strap across the waist. The traditional
Uzushiogakure
 symbol is no longer present on the back of the Konoha-nins' flak jackets, but is instead emblazoned onto an armband worn as part of the standard attire.

Konohagakure

Worn for most of the series, these flak jackets are green, though pauldron colours can differ from the chest colours. They have three scroll pouches on each side of their chest, a neck guard, extra padding over the shoulders (which is fastened on by steel buttons), and a zipper down the middle. The
Uzushiogakure
 symbol is integrated onto the back of the jacket, symbolising the ties between the two villages.

Konohagakure

Worn by Konoha's
Anbu
, these flak jackets are steel grey. They come with steel gauntlets and seem to be fastened with a zipper, an interwoven band near the stomach, and two straps over the shoulders. Swords are mounted on the back just over the right shoulder by a metal holster. Furthermore, they come with two equipment pouches instead of one.

Konohagakure

Worn in
Naruto Shippūden the Movie: The Lost Tower
, these flak jackets were dull brown. They came with angular shoulder guards that envelope the entire upper chest, a throat guard, a neck guard, and one scroll pouch attached to the left shoulder. Though the padding was thinner on the sides, it extended down in the front and back. They also came with knee and elbow padding alongside a large pouch on the lower back.

Konohagakure

Worn during the
Second Shinobi World War
, these flak jackets were steel grey. They were usually worn over the older version of the flak jacket as extra protection, connected by straps over the shoulders and hips. It came with protruding shoulder guards, extensions to protect the lower throat and abdomen, and steel gauntlets. A stand-alone variant without a throat guard or protruding shoulder guards has been seen.

Konohagakure

Worn during the
Second Shinobi World War
. It lacked pockets and sometimes neck guards. The lack of scroll pouches was remedied by wearing two additional equipment pouches on the lower back.

Konohagakure

Worn by the Anbu
Root
 during their false flag operation to assassinate the Third Hokage, these flak jackets are brown. They are fastened by clasps over the shoulder alongside a zipper They possess two pockets on the upper chest and two sets of scroll pouches diagonally set on the lower stomach. It comes with two pouches on the lower back and a sword strapped over the right shoulder. It is also worn over a green jumpsuit and comes with knee pads and gauntlets.

Sunagakure

These flak jackets are beige. They may or may not include shoulder padding, shoulder guards, neck guards, and scroll pouches over their stomachs. They are fastened by a zipper in the front and by metal clasps on the shoulders. A pouch is included in the lower back.

Sunagakure

Worn by some genin, these flak jackets are brownish-beige. They are fastened by a zipper, worn over a short-sleeved shirt and bodysuit, and lack scroll pouches or shoulder padding. This is compensated by having a thick neck guard that envelops the entire neck and segmented steel arm-guards.

Iwagakure

Worn since the time of the
Third Shinobi World War
, these flak jackets were brown in colour, with a large zippered pouch over their stomach and a larger, buttoned one over the lower back of the vest. Both pouches are fastened on by a strap over the stomach. None of these flak jackets hold the presence of neck guards though they do retain shoulder padding held in place by buttons and zippers that go down the middle.

Kirigakure
 and Kiri's
hunter-nin

These flak jackets are slate grey. They are very basic in design and have no pockets. The most notable features of these flak jackets are the extended shoulder guards and lower extensions on either side to protect the lower abdomen. This flak jacket is fastened from the sides by straps. Post-war, they were modified to include thin neck guards like other nations' post-war models.

Kirigakure

Worn in the anime by
Team Ganryū
 and others who were against the Shinobi Alliance, these flak jackets are slate grey. They are very similar to Iwagakure's but sometimes come with neck guards.

Kirigakure

Worn in the anime in the past, these jackets are slate grey. Unlike its counterparts, it came with two scroll pouches on the lower left side, a pocket on the right chest, a built-in pouch on the lower back, a neck guard, an extension to protect the lower stomach, and was fastened by a covered zipper. However, there is only minimal padding on the sides. The village's symbol is embedded on the back.

Kirigakure

Worn by Kiri's
Anbu
, these flak jackets are slate grey. They come with or without a neck-guard but have elongated padding over the shoulders, some bearing their village symbol on each padding. Like the flack jacket used by the Kirigakure's regular forces, it is held together with straps from the sides.

Kirigakure

Worn in the anime by Kiri shinobi in the years following the Fourth Shinobi World War.

Kumogakure

These flak jackets are white. They have no scroll pouches and are fastened by only one strap over the left shoulder, which is fastened with a button. The front consists of one diagonal line going down to the left with four small lines on top and one medium-sized line going down to the right that is perpendicular the previous line. While the flak jacket only covers half of the torso, this is compensated with the use of shin and arm guards.

Kumogakure

Worn in the anime approximately ten years prior to the start of the series, these flak jackets were dark grey. It had extra shoulder padding, neck padding, mesh armour around the collarbone, three scroll pouches on the chest, and was fastened by metal clasps on the right side alongside a purple sash around the waist. Some don't have scroll pouches or mesh armour, as is the case with the
Kumo spectators
.

Otogakure

These flak jackets are black. They come with shoulder padding (which is fastened on by steel buttons) and a neck guard. They are also fastened by three metal clasps on the left side and have a pouch in the front just over the stomach.

Otogakure

Worn three years after the Konoha Crush, these flak jackets are beige. They come with shoulder padding (which envelopes the entire upper chest and a neck guard). They are also fastened by a zipper, are worn with bandages around the wrists, and come with a large pouch on the back

Otogakure

Worn by Mitsuki and Orochimaru, these flak jackets are slate grey and possess heavily reinforced shoulder and neck guards alongside an extension to protect the groin. The front is noticeably segmented to allow for unhindered movement. It appears to be fastened by straps under the shoulders. It also comes with a sword attached over the right shoulder and a large pouch over the lower back. However, side protection is non-existent as no padding is included on the sides.

Amegakure

These flak jackets are slate grey. They cover the shoulders and torso, include a neck guard, and are held in place by a zipper. Some have been seen bearing two swirl designs on the chest. However, they do not come with scroll pouches.

Takigakure

Worn in the anime, these flak jackets are sky blue. They are fastened by a zipper and shoulder straps. However, they lack scroll pouches, neck guards, and reinforced shoulder padding. Some Taki shinobi wear metal shoulder-guards attached to their flak jackets.

Takigakure

Worn in the anime by the
Taki Kunoichi
, these flak jackets are light blue. They have two buttoned pockets on the lower stomach, a
sword
 holster on the back, and wrist guards, and are worn over a short sleeved shirt with a body suit underneath.

Takigakure

Worn in the anime, these flak jackets are purple. They include a neck guard, buttoned shoulder padding, scroll pouches, and a zipper.

Takigakure

Worn in the anime during the
Second Shinobi World War
, these flak jackets were dark purple. It had thick shoulder padding, a neck guard, extensions on both sides to protect the lower abdomen, one large pocket on the right near the stomach, and was fastened by a zipper. However, side protection was reduced to a minimum amount of padding.

Hoshigakure

Worn in the anime, these flak jackets are blue. They have two scroll pouches near the left hip and are held together by straps on the right side and by the neck-guard, which surrounds the entire neck.

Jōmae Village

Worn in the anime, these flak jackets are brown. They come with a throat guard that surrounds the entire neck, have shin guards, extend slightly downward to protect the lower stomach, and are attached by straps over the collarbone and hips. They also seem to favour using mesh armour to protect the shoulders.

Benisu Island

Worn in the anime, these flak jackets are beige. They have two large pockets on either side of the chest, two in the lower sides, extra shoulder padding, and a built-in neck guard. In addition, they also have a concave triangular symbol embedded in the back. They are also fastened by a zipper and can be worn over a piece of cloth (which also has the same symbol) that hangs down to the wearer's knees.

Kagerō Village

Worn thirty years before the main series, these flak jackets were tan. They possessed a neck guard and reinforced shoulder padding. Unlike most flak jackets, they were fastened with three flaps of padding over the front and came with a small pouch on the lower left back.

Prajñā Group

These flak jackets are dark green. They lack any accessories except for three pouches on the lower back that are fastened by a strap over the stomach. They also possess a zipper that runs down the middle, neck guards, and padded shoulder-guards.

Fūma clan

These flak jackets are dark blue. They possess extended shoulder guards but no neck guards. They also come with black bands on the sides and are fastened by a zipper and over the top with the same black bands with metal clasps. They also come with iron gauntlets and a
fūma shuriken
 holster on the back. There are two grey equipment pouches mounted on the hips.

Moya Triad

Worn in the anime, these flak jackets are beige. They had two large pockets on the chest area and two built-in pockets at the sides. The shoulder padding is also reinforced and the zipper is covered. In addition, they come with elbow and knee-pads.

Land of the Sky

Worn in
Naruto Shippūden the Movie: Bonds
, these flak jackets are purple. They have two basic pockets on both sides of the chest, are fastened by a covered zipper, and have a protective flap beneath to protect the groin. They also bear their village symbol integrated onto both of the shoulders which is reinforced with additional padding.

Land of Demons

Worn by the Land of Demons' border guards in
Naruto Shippūden the Movie
, these flak jackets are slate grey. They possess thin neck guards, extensions to protect the lower torso, are fastened from the sides by straps, and are pocketless. In addition, they come with black wrist and shin guards.

Land of the Moon

Worn by loyalists in
Naruto the Movie: Guardians of the Crescent Moon Kingdom
, these flak jackets are black. It appears to be fastened by a covered zipper, with elastic bands around the hip, and strap-on padding over the shoulders. Unlike the vests worn by the Land of the Moon's regular forces, the one worn by
the captain of the guard
 bears a large emblem that resembles a bird-like creature (hawk or phoenix) integrated on the left side of the chest (presumably the military insignia), suggesting that it is reserved for the royal guard or elite forces. The vest also comes with a pocket on the right hip while the left hip has a cutlass mounted on it.

Land of the Moon

Worn by the regular forces (who joined Shabadaba's coup) in
Naruto the Movie: Guardians of the Crescent Moon Kingdom
, these flak jackets are dark blue. It appears to be fastened over the shoulders and the sides by straps and covers the groin. It also comes with a crested helmet with a visor, shin guards, outer thigh guards held by straps, gauntlets, and often a large hand-held shield for additional protection while a sword is mounted in the left hip.

Yumegakure

Worn in
Naruto Shippūden: Kizuna Drive
, these flak jackets are dark green, possess a neck guard, are fastened by a zipper, and have heavy shoulder padding reinforced with steel lining on the shoulder.

Trivia

During the Warring States Period, a member of the
Hagoromo clan
 was seen wearing plate armour that closely resembled the later design of Kumogakure's flak jacket.

References