This article is about the jutsu invented by Tobirama. For the jutsu invented by Boruto, see
Flying Thunder God Technique (Boruto)
. For other uses, see
Hiraishin
.

The
Flying Thunder God Technique
 is a
space–time ninjutsu
 originally developed by
Tobirama Senju
.
 It was later
recreated
 by
Boruto Uzumaki
.

Overview






Minato's formula (left) and Tobirama's formula (right).



Before the Flying Thunder God Technique can be performed, users must first mark a target with their "technique formula" (
術式
,
jutsu-shiki
).
 The formula is applied after the merest touch and cannot be removed; it will remain in place even after the user has died.
 There is no limit to how many targets can be marked with technique formulas, as
Minato Namikaze
 routinely uses dozens at a time.

By entering a dimensional void, users can instantly teleport to a technique formula's location whenever they please, regardless of distance,
 or different dimension.
 To an onlooker, it may look like the
Body Flicker Technique
, but the Flying Thunder God actually has more in common with the
Summoning Technique
.
 Anything that the user is holding, contacting, or that is linked with their
chakra
 will teleport with them,
 but this requires additional chakra to do; particularly large objects can require so much chakra as to place a limit on how far away the user is able to teleport.
 Users can choose to teleport to a different location than the objects,
 or they can teleport objects without teleporting themselves.

In combat situations, the Flying Thunder God can most effectively be used by marking an opponent's body with the technique formula, allowing the user to teleport to them at anytime: when the marked opponent tries to attack, the user can attack them first;
 when the marked opponent tries to escape, the user can instantly appear at their side.

Tō no Sho
 likens this to a
juinjutsu
, in that anyone marked with the technique formula is essentially sentenced to death.
 While trying to find an opportunity to mark opponents, the Flying Thunder God also gives users a defensive option, as they can teleport away from an opponent's attacks. In order to take advantage of this, the technique formula is often applied to projectile weapons, such as Minato's
special kunai
, which can quickly be scattered around a battlefield to create several teleportation destinations that can be escaped to and subsequently attacked from.

Both Tobirama and Minato were famed as the fastest shinobi during their lifetimes.
 While both were very fast on their own, the Flying Thunder God also contributed to their fame. During the
Third Shinobi World War
, Minato's extensive usage of the Flying Thunder God led to his moniker as "
Konoha
's Yellow Flash":
 he would randomly appear behind enemy lines and, by seemingly being in many places at once, wipe out whole squadrons before they had time to react.
 By combining their naturally good reflexes with the instantaneousness of the Flying Thunder God, Tobirama could intercept and redirect a
Truth-Seeking Ball
 mid-detonation
 and Minato could escape
Kamui
 mid-capture.
 Minato's ability to dodge
A
's
Lightning Release Chakra Mode
 led A to dub Minato the fastest ninja who ever lived.

When both Tobirama and Minato are
revived
 during the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, Tobirama was able to link himself with Minato's Flying Thunder God network, allowing him to teleport to the latter's technique formulas.
 Together, they develop the
Flying Thunder God Mutually Instantaneous Revolving Technique
, which allows them to switch places with each other in combat to set-up different manoeuvres.
 During their lives, both developed their own variants of the Flying Thunder God: Tobirama had the
Flying Thunder God Slash
, which he used to stab opponents the instant he teleported to their side;
 Minato had
Flying Thunder God: Guiding Thunder
, which created a
barrier
 in front of him that teleported incoming attacks to a different location.

Approximately two decades later,
Boruto Uzumaki
 would take inspiration from his grandfather and use his inherent
Ōtsutsuki

teleportation
 ability to devise
an imitation of the ninjutsu
. Though it produces nearly identical results it is technically different enough to be considered an entirely separate technique, and has more limitations.

Trivia

The name
Hiraishin
 is also the phonic of the Japanese word 避雷針, which means "
lightning rod
". This may suggest the reasoning as to why the technique is restricted towards a seal, because lightning is attracted to lightning rods.

The Flying Thunder God Technique has sometimes been referred to as the
Body Flicker Technique
,
 despite the fact that they are fundamentally different.

Minato incorporated the Flying Thunder God's mark into his
wife
's
seal
, allowing him to immediately come to her aid when needed.

Although it's been said that the technique formula can't be removed, its marking has disappeared from individuals that have
tailed beasts
 sealed into them
 and extracted from them.

In the anime, Minato's technique formula appears to say 忍愛之剣, made up of the kanji for "endurance" (
忍
,
nin
), "love" (
愛
,
ai
), "of" (
之
), and "sword" (
剣
,
ken
). Tobirama's is more reminiscent of the formula used for
seals
 – a random assortment of
Kanji
,
Hindi script
, and other symbols.

In video games, Minato's use of the Flying Thunder God Technique creates a yellow flash, in reference to his nickname.

Originally, before Tobirama's second revival, the Flying Thunder God technique was said to be Minato's original technique,
 but it was then retconned to him learning it.

See Also

Amenotejikara

Claw Mark

References