This article is about the jutsu invented by Boruto. For the jutsu invented by Tobirama, see
Flying Thunder God Technique
. For other uses, see
Hiraishin
.

The
Flying Thunder God Technique
 is a
space–time ninjutsu
 created by
Boruto Uzumaki
, inspired by the technique of the same name.

Overview





Boruto using his Ōtsutsuki teleportation to develop the Flying Thunder God.



Approximately two decades after the
Fourth Shinobi World War
,
Boruto Uzumaki
 would take inspiration from his grandfather
Minato Namikaze
 and use his inherent
Ōtsutsuki

teleportation
 ability to develop his own imitation of the jutsu. Though it produces nearly identical results it is technically different enough to be considered an entirely separate technique, and has more limitations.

Boruto's version harnesses his teleportation ability to translocate to metal objects he previously marked with his chakra, allowing him to freely and instantly move wherever he chooses. Metal objects, including weapons, accessories, and utensils, were chosen as the medium due to their chakra conductivity. The translocation is easier and more accurate when used on objects within visual range, however for objects that are far away the process is more difficult, and if they have similar shapes he may be unable to discern which is which. For this reason he prepared a variety of metal objects with distinct shapes to act as unique symbols that he could visualize in order to accurately translocate to his intended coordinates even over great distances. Some of the objects he has marked include Sasuke's sword, his shuriken, his metal jewelry and pins, and several metal symbols carried by Koji's scout toads.

Trivia

According to
Koji Kashin
, it originally would have taken Boruto about six years to develop and hone the technique through trial and error. However, after Koji used his
Ten Directions

shinjutsu
 to learn the basic theory behind it, he was able to help accelerate Boruto's training by imparting wisdom gleaned from the future to him. To which, Boruto was able to master it within only about two years of intense training.

References