"
For Kagura
" (
かぐらのために
,
Kagura no Tame ni
) is episode 247 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Despite the losses from the previous battle and still being injured,
Funamushi
 still wishes to get revenge on
Boruto
 for
Seiren
.
Gokai
 points out that while possible, this might make ambushing
Kirigakure
 harder later on. At the village, everyone tries making repairs while still mourning for
Kagura
.
Iwabee
 reports that the food storage was destroyed, so there's very little food left.
Sarada
 weights their options.
Denki
 suggests foraging for food on the chance Funamushi avoids the village to continue with the Kirigakure ambush, which would allow them to know if the
Funato
 pass them by, and return quickly if necessary. Sarada agrees to let
Team 5
 do it.
Mitsuki
 volunteers for locating the Funato, being able to use his
snakes
 to cover a large area. Sarada wants everyone else to help fortify the village for the next attack. Boruto,
Kawaki
, and the
swordsmen
 want to counterattack the Funato, but Sarada stresses that if they go looking for them, the village will be defenceless if the Funato show up, which would also allow them to carry on with their Kirigakure ambush. She wants them to follow her orders so that no one else dies, as Kagura's wish was to protect the village.

Isari
 informs his father of
Tenma
's death.
Araumi
 asks for the circumstances and notes how composed Isari is. Isari confesses to feeling bitter and frustrated, but the situation requires him to stay steady, and notes that with the failed diversion, their ambush is more likely to fail as well. Araumi comments that Tenma's death and Seiren's defeat are consequences of his plan as well. He is confident that Seiren will recover, and wants her to head their assault unit so she can get revenge on the ones who defeated her, certain it's the ones they fought at the prison. Isari wants to carry on with the ambush, but Araumi decides to take leadership, even if it means ignoring Isari's plans. Isari wanted to go with ambushes because he's aware of the difference in strength between the Funato and Kirigakure, but Araumi states that as a clan of the sea, that is unlike them, so they'll fight head on. Araumi sends word to call off Funamushi's ambush, and considers it a mistake leaving Isari in charge as recognition for his role in freeing him from prison. Team 5's foraging doesn't amount to much, and with trading diminished because of the conflict, the village has to ration food. Kawaki informs them the villagers are foregoing eating for their sake, who feel the village will collapse entirely without them.
Hebiichigo
 gives her food to children, and everyone else agrees not to eat as well.
Metal Lee
 follows Hebiichigo, and she reveals she never had a family, sharing memories of growing up in a trash heap. She became a
shinobi
 when she killed a
missing-nin
 who tried killing her for spotting him. The shinobi who were pursuing him saw she had a talent for killing people and praised her, something no one had done before. Metal says there's more to her than that, pointing out her skill in sewing. Sarada settles on a plan to hunker down. Mitsuki reports no Funato sightings, and wishes Kagura could see the swordsmen now. The children tell Kawaki that beyond the mountains, there are fruit-bearing trees. Kawaki wishes to go there, but Iwabee says he and Denki should go, admitting that as a strong fighter, Kawaki should stay in the village in case the Funato attack. The children guide Denki and Iwabee through the forest. Boruto and Kawaki reaffirm their conviction of getting Funamushi at Kagura's grave. Denki, Iwabee, and the children reach the fruit trees, but are overwhelmed by the Funato also getting food. Gokai delivers Araumi's orders to Funamushi, informing him of no changes to Seiren's condition and aborting his ambush. Enraged by it, Funamushi plans to carry it on to get vengeance on Boruto.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Kawaki
Yuma Uchida
内田 雄馬
Uchida Yūma
Denki Kaminarimon
Chihiro Ikki
一木 千洋
Ikki Chihiro
Iwabee Yuino
Shinya Hamazoe
浜添 伸也
Hamazoe Shin'ya
Metal Lee
Ryo Nishitani
西谷 亮
Nishitani Ryō
Buntan Kurosuki
Mariya Ise
伊瀬 茉莉也
Ise Mariya
Hebiichigo
Nao Toyama
東山 奈央
Tōyama Nao
Kyohō Fuefuki
Yasuhiro Mamiya
間宮 康弘
Mamiya Yasuhiro
Funamushi
Takahiro Fujiwara
藤原 貴弘
Fujiwara Takahiro
Gokai
Taito Ban
坂 泰斗
Ban Taito
Araumi Funato
Shigeru Chiba
千葉 繁
Chiba Shigeru
Isari Funato
Yoshihisa Kawahara
川原 慶久
Kawahara Yoshihisa
Village head
Kosuke Katayama
片山 公輔
Katayama Kōsuke
Iwana
Seiyu Fujiwara
藤原 聖侑
Fujiwara Seiyū
Yamame
Keito Okuyama
奥山 敬人
Okuyama Keito
Children
Sara Matsumoto
Juri Nagatsuma
松本 沙羅
長妻 樹里
Matsumoto Sara
Nagatsuma Juri