This article is about the story arc. For the actual war, see
Fourth Shinobi World War
. For other uses, see
Fourth Shinobi World War (disambiguation)
.

The
Fourth Shinobi World War: Climax
 (
第四次忍界大戦 (急)
,
Daiyoji Ninkai Taisen (Kyū)
), known as
The Great Ninja War - Assailants From Afar
 (
忍界大戦・彼方からの攻撃者
,
Ninkai Taisen - Kanata kara no Kōgekisha
),
The Great Ninja War - Sasuke and Itachi
 (
忍界大戦・サスケとイタチ
,
Ninkai Taisen - Sasuke to Itachi
) and
The Great Ninja War - Team 7 Returns
 (
忍界大戦・第七班再び
,
Ninkai Taisen - Dainanahan Futatabi
) in the anime, is an
arc
 from Part II of the series. This arc sees the
Allied Shinobi Forces
' fight against
Kabuto Yakushi
,
Tobi
, and
Madara Uchiha
 as part of the ongoing
Fourth Shinobi World War
. It spans through volumes 59 to 67,
 or more specifically, covers chapters 560 to 639 of the manga and episodes 322 to 348, as well as 362 to 375 of the
Naruto: Shippūden
 anime. This arc is preceded by the
Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation
 and followed by the
Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki
, though in the anime, the two-part
Mecha-Naruto

stand
-
alone
 episodes takes place in between both arcs. Also in the anime, the
Kakashi's Anbu Arc: The Shinobi That Lives in the Darkness
 arc was shown in the interim.

Summary

Madara Uchiha vs. The Allied Shinobi Forces

After emerging from his coffin,
Madara
 believed he has been brought back by Nagato using
Outer Path: Samsara of Heavenly Life Technique
 until Mū reveals the technique to be Impure World Reincarnation. When Madara questions Mū about the user of the technique's identity, Kabuto takes full control of the Tsuchikage to explain to the reincarnated Uchiha that he brought him back and had made enhancements that have gave him greater power then he had in the prime of his life.

News of this turn of events reaches the Fourth Division's location with Gaara leading the attack as Madara counters with a widespread
fire technique
, which is countered by the combined usage of
Water Formation Wall
 by several shinobi. Moving on to general melee attacks, given free reign by Kabuto, Madara wreaks havoc on the Fourth Division, prompting Ōnoki to
raise
 the ground below him to force him into Naruto's
Ultra-Big Ball Rasengan
.

Madara responds by activating his
Eternal Mangekyō Sharingan
 and blocking the attack with his
Susanoo
 and goes on to continue decimating the division's forces. As Naruto enters
Sage Mode
 and creates his
attack
, Ōnoki
lightens
 Gaara's sand, allowing him to manipulate it easier, which he uses to pull Madara out of Susanoo into the path of Naruto's Sage Mode-enhanced Rasenshuriken. Claiming the attack to be 'too much', Madara surprisingly activates his
Rinnegan
 and uses the
Preta Path
's
chakra absorption technique
 to dispel the technique, to which Kabuto rejoices that the hypothesis that he came up with based on the data gathered by he and
Orochimaru
 was validated, as he improved Madara's body beyond what it was in his prime. Madara replies that his power is not of Kabuto's creation, but his own. Using his twin-bodied Susanoo to weave two seals at once in conjunction with his own, pulling a giant asteroid earthbound towards the Fourth Division, stunning everyone, leading Gaara to question whether this was the power of a god.





Madara summons a meteorite to wipe out the battlefield.



As the giant meteorite descends, Ōnoki tells the Allied Shinobi not to give up before even trying. He flies towards the meteorite intending to lighten it. Gaara orders everyone to retreat, as he stays behind to help Ōnoki. Kabuto speaking through Mū, surmises that Madara intends to destroy everything with the meteor, and Madara states that he is correct as they will simply regenerate. Ōnoki successfully lightens the meteorite, as Gaara catches it with his sand. Madara asks what they will do about the second one, as it collides it with the first. At the Allied HQ, discussing their masked foe's reason for calling himself "Madara Uchiha" with A and Shikaku, Tsunade believes it was to play on the fear the name itself presents and how their opponent used Madara's name to get the world's attention and drag it into war. The shock from the second meteorite's impact reaches HQ. They receive intel about what happened, and they determine that it must be Madara's attack. Tsunade states that she will be heading to the front. Back at the battlefield there are barely any survivors left. Dodai protected Naruto's clone due to him being a valuable asset.

Ōnoki was severely injured by the attack. Madara and Mū regenerate, and speak about Madara's plans. They notice survivors and Madara attempts to summon the Nine-Tails, but fails due to it being sealed. Kabuto points out that the jinchūriki is Naruto Uzumaki. Madara uses Hashirama's
Wood Release Secret Technique: Nativity of a World of Trees
 to attack the the remaining Allied Forces. The Nine-Tails gives Naruto some of its chakra without any of its will, preferring to help Naruto over being controlled by Madara again. Naruto rushes towards the approaching forest and creates many shadow clones. The clones create multiple Big Ball Rasengan and destroy the advancing forest. Naruto says that he used up all of the Nine-Tails chakra and that he feels like he could disappear at any moment. Ōnoki tells Naruto to rest while they finish the battle. He proclaims that it's finally time to pick himself off the ground and that there's no opponent more worthy than Madara Uchiha.





The Five Kage confront Madara.



Ōnoki
 decides to take on both
Madara
 and
Mū
 with the assistance of the remaining
Fourth Division
.
Tsunade
 and
A
 decide to head to Madara's location through
Mabui
's
Heavenly Transfer Technique
, a technique that only transports objects as transporting a living being would surely rip them apart. However, Tsunade decides to take the gamble using her
Yin Seal: Release
.
Shikaku

telepathically
 communicates to
Genma
 to have him,
Raidō
 and another
Konoha
 shinobi to perform the
Flying Thunder God Technique
 to transport
Mei
 to Madara's location as well after
Chōjūrō
 incapacitates
Black Zetsu
 with a single slash. The three
Kage
 arrive at the battlefield and prepare to fight Madara.

Mei and A battle Madara while Tsunade heals Gaara and Ōnoki. Gaara and Ōnoki protect the group when Madara goes into the offensive. The five Kage tell Naruto's clone that he isn't needed in that battlefield any more, and urge him to beat the
other Madara
. The clone disperses.

The Showdown with Tobi





Jinchūriki showing their respective tails.



Naruto
 and
B
 encounter
Tobi
 and Naruto head-butts him head-on, sending them both reeling. Tobi's mask doesn't even get a scratch on it. B catches Naruto and advises him to calm down. Naruto comments on Tobi's new mask's appearance and strength, which Tobi replies is due to the mask being made of materials suitable for war. Then, Naruto and B start fighting Tobi's
Six Paths of Pain
.
Rōshi
 begins the assault by lunching
lava boulders
 at his opponents, which B and Naruto responds by attacking head on.
Yagura
 however manages to
counter
 the attacks causing B and Naruto to fall into
Utakata
's
trap
. B and Naruto manage to escape it, but find themselves being
blinded
 by
Fū
, which were followed by
fast

attacks
 from
Yugito
 and
Han
, and though the assault were successfully blocked, Naruto and B were still driven back. Tobi finds out that
Madara
 was
reincarnated
, with the youth demanding who he truly is, he tells Naruto that he is a nobody and that the only thing that truly matters is him completing the
Eye of the Moon Plan
. When Naruto and B state their own goal of tearing his mask off to find who he is truly it, Tobi ends the conversation by proclaiming that he will capture both of them and complete his plans.






B transforms into the Eight-Tails to level the forest.



Naruto states they won't hand over the
Eight-Tails
 and the
Nine-Tails
. B questions if the
jinchūriki
 had their
tailed beasts
 removed, and the Eight-Tails concludes that they must have been resealed, as it can sense them in their hosts, though different. B begins attacking despite Naruto's call to wait. B attacks Fū with
Samehada
, but she dodges it by flying. B launches his
swords

coated in lightning chakra
 from her blindspot, but she dodges it as the other jinchūriki watch the two. B wonders how she could dodge from a blindspot, so Naruto tells him about the
Rinnegan
's shared field of vision. Rōshi
coats himself in lava
 and attacks Naruto, who narrowly evades it, the heat burning his cheek. Yugito launches her
guided attack
, and clashes with B, cutting his scarf. B and Naruto take cover, and B is surprised by her speed, and the Eight-Tails points out that the
Sharingan
 allows them to react faster, while the Rinnegan coordinate attacks. Naruto tells B and the Eight-Tails about the Paths of Pain and the
black receivers
. B points one in Yugito's chest, from a hit he landed earlier. Naruto goes in the open and tries destroying a receiver in Rōshi while being attacked, but is stopped by Han. The Eight-Tails says that the forest will hinder their field of vision, so B transforms into the Eight-Tails to level the forest.






The reincarnated jinchūriki enter Version 2 states.



B
devastates
 the forest, also knocking down the other jinchūriki. At the Allied Shinobi HQ,
Ao
 detects that B has transformed into the Eight-Tails.
Inoichi
 receives updates on the
Kage
 holding Madara back.
Shikaku
 requests other divisions' statuses, and learns that the
First
 and
Second Divisions
 are almost done with their enemies, the
Third
 only has one more reincarnated shinobi to seal, and the
Fifth
 has the advantage on their fight. Shikaku orders that as soon as they're done, that they go back up B and Naruto, and asks their coordinates. Naruto notes that the jinchūriki are down, and the Eight-Tails urges B to seal them. B spits out
ink clones
, which proceed to
lock them in place
.






Kakashi and Guy arrive to save Naruto.



Before the clones finish sealing them, Tobi appears from underground, the jinchūriki advance in their transformations and resume attacking. Fū and Yugito
tag
-
team
 on Naruto, followed by Yagura, who
impairs Naruto's movements
. Meanwhile, Utakata
frees
 himself from B's hold and Rōshi
attacks
. The Eight-Tails is concerned and thinks they should retreat, but B is
rammed
 by Han, who has fully transformed into the
Five-Tails
. Tobi moves in, to
warp
 Naruto away, stating that six against two puts the odds in his favour. However, this was thwarted as
Kakashi
 and
Guy
 attacked Tobi with his
Violent — Leaf Adamantine-Strength Whirlwind
 technique and causes Tobi to become intangible and slip through Naruto while Kakashi retrieve Naruto. Naruto is happy to see them, while Tobi states that two more shinobi doesn't make a difference against the power of his eyes and tailed beasts. Kakashi then states that they too have a Sharingan followed by Guy who states that to not underestimate him as he was Konoha's Sublime Green Beast of Prey.






Sasuke leaves Mountains' Graveyard.



At the
Mountains' Graveyard
,
Sasuke
 breaks out of the hideout while elsewhere, having escaped the
samurai
,
Jūgo
 and
Suigetsu
 discuss Sasuke and
Karin
, as well as Suigetsu's goal to collect swords as they head to one of
Orochimaru
's hideouts. On the battlefield, Naruto warns Guy and Kakashi about Tobi's abilities. As the Five-Tails attacks, Guy
frees
 Naruto from the coral before seeing the beast turn on Tobi who
chains
 and suppresses the Five-Tails, who is dismayed at being controlled in that manner. The Eight-Tails tries crushing Tobi, but he simply slips through it. Tobi returns Han back to his Version 2 form. Guy and Kakashi speculate that Tobi doesn't have full control over the tailed beasts. The Eight and Nine-Tails speak to each other telepathically about the treatment of the tailed beasts and the Nine-Tails says that as the second strongest beast, going by tails, the Eight-Tails should just finish the battle already, and feigns sleep. The Eight-Tails snaps back, saying that this belief about their powers being defined by the number of tails is exactly why the
Shukaku
 hated the Nine-Tails so much. Guy and Kakashi charge at the jinchūriki, intending to figure out which of the Six Paths of Pain techniques each one used, only to conclude that Tobi isn't making them use Six Paths techniques because they already have strategies against those. Tobi praises them for figuring that out, and proceeds to make Rōshi and Utakata transform completely into their respective beasts. Naruto falls out of
Nine-Tails Chakra Mode
, and considers creating more
shadow clones
 with the Nine-Tails' chakra as diversions. B thinks that creating more clones would surely kill him, but the Eight-Tails points out that Naruto should already be on the brink of death, and thinks that the Nine-Tails has stopped taking Naruto's chakra for a while. The
Six-Tails

attacks
 Kakashi and Guy, who dodge. The
Four-Tails
 tosses the Eight-Tails, and Naruto almost falls into its mouth, but resists being eaten by the Four-Tails, now back in Nine-Tails Chakra Mode, as the Nine-Tails opens one eye watching on.






Naruto meets with Son Gokū.



The Four-Tails tosses the Eight-Tails on the ground, and keeps forcing its mouth shut with Naruto in it while the Nine-Tails watches on. Guy wants to save Naruto, but Kakashi points out their own unfortunate situation between two attack fronts: the Six-Tails' corrosive gas and the other jinchūriki's
chakra arms
. Kakashi creates a shadow clone and
slices
 through the arms, while Guy
punches and burns
 the gas away. The Eight-Tails wraps its tentacles around the Four-Tails, telling it to let go of Naruto. The Eight-Tails tells the Nine-Tails it heard that it helped Naruto against Madara, the Nine-Tails saying it won't wag its tails to help its jinchūriki as easily as the Eight-Tails. The Eight-Tails questions if it doesn't care at all about what happens to Naruto. The Nine-Tails recalls how many shinobi in the past have restrained it and denied it an identity. The Four-Tails closes its mouth. Naruto meets the Four-Tails, bound by chains. It asks if Naruto is there to take its power, and demands to be called by its proper name, making a boisterous introduction. Naruto apologises for not listening to Son Gokū, which impresses it. Naruto and Son Gokū discuss issues of recognition, identity, and existence. The Four-Tails laughs when Naruto says he's jealous of how B and the Eight-Tails are with each other, before seeing Naruto is serious about it. Considering Naruto to be a better sight than Tobi, Son Gokū offers to help Naruto if he can undo the chains that bind it.






Gyūki restraining Son Gokū.



Son Gokū tells Naruto that it won't become his ally even if he saves it, unless it can trust Naruto, who is OK with that. Kurama ponders that it knows Naruto, and that nothing he can say will reach a tailed beast. Tobi pulls Son towards himself with chains intent on absorbing them both. B's still trying to make Son open its mouth and release Naruto. Naruto fails to make Son open its mouth, and decides using the
Multiple Shadow Clone Technique
 to make Son puke him out, which it does. B celebrates it. Son tells Naruto that the black receiver in him slid from its chest to its neck because of the full tailed beast transformation. Naruto spots it, enters in his Nine-Tails Chakra Mode, and sets out to remove it, apologising to Son in advance if he needs to get rough. Naruto pulls himself towards the receiver. Tobi tries binding Naruto with the chains. Kurama recalls Naruto's past achievements, and thinks that if Naruto truly wants to help tailed beasts, that he should do like he always has and act. Naruto tries pulling out the black receiver, while a clone he left inside Son enters
Sage Mode
 tries
pushing it
 from the inside.






Naruto and Kurama stand side by side.



After Naruto successfully removes the black receiver, Tobi instantly summons the
Demonic Statue of the Outer Path
 and reseals Son Gokū, but not before it leaves Naruto with a parting gift. With a declaration, that he intends to go all-out from this point on because they had something that belonged to him, Tobi forces the remaining five jinchūriki into their respective full tailed beast forms. As Kakashi and Guy watch on in shock, Kurama tells Naruto that he is willing to lend him more of his power. Somewhat taken aback by this, Naruto then proceeds to thank the beast for helping him during his brief battle with Madara Uchiha, which Kurama rebuffs. Naruto then chastises the beast for the manner in which he took gratitude before the beast — offering him its fist — tells Naruto to meld his chakra with its own. Bumping fists with the beast, Naruto stands and tells B and the Eight-Tails that he was ready to go again. They however tells him that they would take the front lines while Naruto acted as support since he was unable to transform into the full Nine-Tails. Naruto however declines this manoeuvre, leading the Eight-Tails to wonder if Kurama had finally come around. As Naruto places his hand on the seals on his stomach and opens the
gates
 that held Kurama back, he states that it was no longer the Nine-Tailed Demon Fox, but Kurama — a comrade from
Konohagakure
.






Naruto's Tailed Beast Mode.



As the seal opens up, the five opposing tailed beasts each create a
Tailed Beast Ball
 to fire at Kakashi and Guy. Kakashi planned on countering using
Kamui
 while Guy considers openning up his
eighth gate
, but Naruto, after
undergoing a transformation
 from releasing his seal was able to deflect all the attacks. Frustrated, Tobi made all the tailed beasts attack, but they were all pushed away by the Nine-Tails'
roar
. Kakashi and Guy found themselves within Kurama's chakra, while Naruto created a clone which entered Sage Mode to locate the rods on the tailed beasts. Kurama warned Naruto that since their union wasn't perfect, they could remain in this form for only five minutes, which Naruto states was plenty of time. Using the chakra, Naruto grabbed the
Seven-Tails
, planning on pile-driving it into the
Three-Tails
, but the giant turtle managed to curl up and roll away. Intending on finishing off the Seven-Tails, Kurama raised its fist, but it was swallowed by the Six-Tails, trapping them while the Three-Tails rolled straight at them. Just before it could reach the giant fox, the Eight-Tails managed to grab the turtle with its tentacles. The Five-Tails then tried to ram into the bull again but B managed to knock it away. The
Two-Tails
 then attempted to pounce on Kurama, but Naruto swung the Six-Tails into its path, sending them both flying. Naruto's Sage Mode clone managed to figure out the location of the black receivers, while Kakashi and Guy watch on in disbelief. Tobi, realising he wouldn't be able to defeat the two jinchūriki unless he aimed to kill them, made his tailed beasts regroup to perform one massive Tailed Beast Ball, which Naruto responded to by firing his own.






Naruto's encounter with the other tailed beasts and jinchūriki.



As Naruto's Tailed Beast Ball collide with those of the opposing tailed beasts, both attacks fly upwards and explode. Using the opportunity to grab the beasts by the throat, Naruto sends clones of himself all in the initial Nine-Tails Chakra Mode to grab hold of the black receivers. As they do so, the original enters the consciousness of the tailed beasts who had all been waiting there with their respective jinchūriki and is greeted by Yugito who was pleased he had made it to this level. Welcoming him, Naruto and Yagura — whom the former starts pitying believing the former
Mizukage
 to be a child who looked even weaker than Naruto did — have a brief conversation. After learning of Son Gokū and Rōshi's fate from Fū, he is summoned before the tailed beast and told to stretch out his hand. After Utakata and Han thank Naruto, one by one, tailed beast and jinchūriki alike introduce themselves to Naruto and then "bump fists" with him. Here, Kurama remembers the parting words of the
Sage of Six Paths
 and then — as the stakes are removed — asks his fellow tailed beast if they too believed as Son did that Naruto was the one that the Sage had spoken of so long ago. They all affirm them as a shocked Tobi reseals them into the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path. Though stating that nothing had changed because of his worn out condition after the Tailed Beast Mode had ended, Naruto refutes Tobi's claim, stating that he had just learned a bunch of difficult names all at once.

Tobi is confused by Naruto's claim of learning difficult names, which Naruto teases him for. Guy remarks how Naruto's progress is making him feel old, to which Kakashi tries to make him feel better, only to fail. Tobi feels a moisture on his wrist, at first thinking it was sweat but eventually convinces himself that it's the rain that's starting to fall. Tobi has a strange feeling about Naruto and perceives an aura about him. However, he snaps out of his shaken state and asserts that the war will make everything irrelevant, including Naruto. At the Allied Shinobi HQ, Naruto's use of Kurama's chakra was felt, though they also feel something else. Ao relays to events to Shikaku, who wants to use it to raise the army's morale all at once, despite the strain it would cause to him. Naruto's friends from Konoha all rush towards his direction, all with intent on supporting him. Elsewhere, Sasuke also walks towards the battlefield as a thunderstorm ensues.

Against the Uchiha

In the
Konohagakure Intelligence Division
,
Karin
 feigns mental instability to lessen the guards' attention to her, and begins plotting her escape with a lock-pick set hidden in her glasses and under a portrait of Sasuke she made.
Jūgo
 and Suigetsu learn about the war, near one of
Orochimaru
's hideouts. Jūgo questions
Suigetsu
's reasons to be part of
Taka
, and while the two argue, Jūgo's killing intent kicks in, and he attacks Suigetsu. Suigetsu simply reforms and begins drowning Jūgo to subdue him. He notices that the attack revealed a secret room caused by Jūgo's attack, where Suigetsu discovers a scroll detailing secrets to winning the war.
Sasuke
 runs into a small platoon of the
White Zetsu Army
, who question his presence outside, and realise he's killed the original
White Zetsu
 before attacking. Sasuke uses Susanoo and incinerates several of them. He interrogates one of the White Zetsu using
genjutsu
, and learns about the war and its purpose. Sasuke finishes the White Zetsu and decides to go kill
Naruto Uzumaki
. Sasuke is pleased with Itachi's eyes, and reminisces about him. Elsewhere, Itachi is on the move.






Sasuke notices Itachi as the latter heads to Kabuto's location.



Ōnoki
 attacks
Madara Uchiha
 with a giant
rock golem
, which Madara
destroys
, creating several flowers.
Tsunade
 recognises the technique as her grandfather's.
Gaara

suspends
 the Kage above the attack, Ōnoki levitating A. The flowers begin releasing a toxic pollen.
Kabuto Yakushi
 muses on how people who heard of
Hashirama Senju
's strength consider it a myth, just like the
Sage of Six Paths
, and that he'll show everyone that this is real.
Dodai
,
Genma
, and
Raidō
 give chase to
Mū
. Having steered the Kage's attention towards the flowers, Madara uses
Susanoo
 to knock them down from behind, throwing them at the flowers, and proceeds to
set the forest ablaze
.
Mei
 tries
putting out the fire
, but collapses due to the pollen, as do the other Kage. Ōnoki thinks back to his youth, talking to the
First Tsuchikage
 about the strong will of Iwa shinobi. Ōnoki musters enough strength to
destroy
 the flowers and injure Madara. The other Kage regain conciousness just in time to see the face formed from the DNA of the First Hokage's face in Madara's chest. Kabuto gushes on how Orochimaru's creation allowed him to create the ultimate trump card. Elsewhere, Sasuke Uchiha detects someone in the woods nearby. Taking out his sword, he goes investigate, only to be shocked at seeing
Itachi Uchiha
.

After Sasuke spots Itachi, he chases his brother down. Itachi refuses to be swayed from his mission, so Sasuke attempts to use Susanoo to stop him, but Itachi counters with his own. As Sasuke chases his brother the two have a conversation. Elsewhere, a regenerating Madara decides to target Tsunade after realising she was a
Senju
. Deeming her a weak woman who had seemingly inherited nothing from Hashirama who he claimed was even more skilled in medical ninjutsu than she was, he goes on to say that even more so that a weak person, he detested a weak Senju. Tsunade however rebuffs him, telling him that though she had not inherited the
Wood Release

kekkei genkai
 her grandfather possessed and that he may have even been more skilled than her with
medical ninjutsu
 — since he did not require the use of
hand seals
 to use it, Madara made two mistakes. One was assuming she was a weak woman and the other was that she had inherited nothing from her ancestor. She states that she inherited something more than simple power, the
Will of Fire
 — something Madara should not take so lightly.






Tsunade using the Ninja Art Creation Rebirth — Strength of a Hundred Technique to take on Madara.



Madara doubts Tsunade can defeat him with the Will of Fire, stating power has nothing to do with will. Tsunade disagrees, saying that the will she inherited made her strong, crediting it for her revolution of medical ninjutsu, building an entire system, and making its three rules, which she lists to him as she releases her seal. She then reveals another rule: that only those who have mastered the
Ninja Art Creation Rebirth — Strength of a Hundred Technique
 are allowed to break the other three rules. The other Kage are stunned to learn about this, while Madara is unfazed, having never heard of the technique. Tsunade explains it's a
kinjutsu
 only she knows how to use. Madara says that getting rid of the pollen and adding a medical-nin won't help their odds. Tsunade says all of them will go at it at once if it comes down to it, and that she's not just a medical-nin. Madara covers himself with Susanoo's ribcage, which Tsunade cracks with her attack. Madara notes her to be slower than the Raikage, but stronger than him.

Madara tries immolating Tsunade, but is
stopped
 by Mei, who also
attacks
. A and Ōnoki deal a
heavy

blow
 just as Tsunade lands a powerful kick, sending Madara crashing down. Madara concedes that Tsunade isn't as weak as he thought. Madara reminds her that she'll get herself killed if she simply rushes into battle, the Kage's source of treatment and recovery. Madara wonders what Hashirama left them, saying they're nothing compared to Hashirama, and that if he had known how weak they'd be, he'd have taught Hashirama how to rise from the dead. He says the only power Hashirama left is clinging to him, and that
his own brother
 only left him his eyes and their power. Tsunade asks if he heard nothing of what she said. Madara says the only thing that could be passed to them is hatred.

At the same time, Dan Katō and Chōza Akimichi have a conversation where Chōza informs him that Madara had been reincarnated and that Tsunade — as Hokage — and the other Kage were battling him, which shocks Dan. Despite Chōza's confidence in Tsunade, Dan tells him that he should use his time finding the caster of the technique instead of guarding the barrier that held him as Madara was not to be taken lightly, expressing his belief that only Hashirama could possibly defeat Madara. Back at the battle with Madara, Tsunade manages to land a devastating blow on Madara and as he regenerates, Gaara
binds
 and
seals
 him. This is however, revealed to be nothing more that a wood clone, as Tsunade is impaled by a Susanoo Sword and Madara emerges from a root telling them that when he fought Hashirama in the past, only his dōjutsu could see through the clone.






Kabuto is found by Itachi.



To keep Sasuke from following him, Itachi summons a flock of
crows
, which stall Sasuke. Itachi finds
Kabuto Yakushi
, saying that he felt where his chakra came from while he was being controlled earlier, citing it as a weakness of the technique. Kabuto isn't concerned, as he's the only one who can stop the technique. After seeing Sasuke close behind Itachi, Kabuto gets excited, exclaiming his luck had turned for the better which prompted an exasperated Itachi to remark that things had turned out worse than he expected.






Sasuke sides with Itachi to defeat Kabuto.



Having arrived at Kabuto's hideout, Sasuke identifies Kabuto. Kabuto attempts to manipulate him into attacking Itachi, but Sasuke explains his goal was to talk with his brother and that Kabuto, who has now taken Orochimaru's mantle, is his enemy. Meanwhile Tsunade reveals her new technique's power, which allows nearly instant regeneration without the usage of hand seals, and throws the sword that impales her back at Madara. While he absorbs it into his Susanoo, Ōnoki tries to blast Madara with Dust Release from behind, but Madara simply absorbs it, claiming he could have done it earlier but instead took it as a chance to demoralise them with Hashirama's visage. Tsunade questions his confidence, stating the Kage forced him into using a wood clone. Instead of rebuffing her, Madara admits five versus one is a good match-up number and creates twenty-five wood clones, five for each Kage. Sasuke attempts to kill Kabuto, but Itachi stops him, explaining the need to discover the counter to the Impure World Reincarnation beforehand. Sasuke agrees to cooperate on the terms that Itachi will answer his questions once they're done, and Itachi accepts, as both brothers and Kabuto ready themselves for battle.






Kabuto enters Sage Mode.



Closing his hood and stating that he was an introverted person and as such it was unsettling to be stared at by so many people, Kabuto sends his snakes charging towards Sasuke and Itachi. The brothers are able to fend this attack off by activating their
Susanoo
, however Kabuto uses this opportunity to hide in one of his
snakes
. Here, Kabuto reveals the abilities that he had gained from experimenting with Sasuke's former team-mates: Karin's healing abilities, a similar ability to Suigetsu's
Hydrification Technique
 as well as Jūgo's ability to absorb
natural energy
. After revealing that he had found and trained at the
Ryūchi Cave
 — much to Itachi's shock — he narrowly dodges Sasuke's
arrow
. Emerging from the snake's mouth he reveals that he had finally surpassed Orochimaru and was able to become a sage and declares that he was now a dragon after Sasuke mistakes him for an imperfect snake like Orochimaru was.

Kabuto launches a
dragon
 at the brothers. As Itachi rushes over, a blinding light and violent air vibrations erupt. Sasuke and Itachi are paralysed by the air vibrations, but Kabuto is still able to move because of his liquified body. Kabuto goes after Sasuke first. Itachi protects him with Susanoo. Itachi explains that he already knows where Kabuto's going to attack, so he can guard properly. Sasuke attempts to impale Kabuto with his
Chidori Sharp Spear
, but Kabuto jumps onto the ceiling. Itachi tells Sasuke to remember the plan they used when they went on a mission together. Sasuke remembering hunting a huge boar as he puts the plan into action with his brother. While Itachi launched
Yasaka Magatama
 as a distraction, Sasuke fired another arrow at Kabuto and managed to pin him to the ceiling. Sasuke thinks he has Kabuto, but then is shocked to see Kabuto off to the side stabbing Itachi. Itachi's body is revealed to be a
crow clone
, and the real Itachi counterattacks, cutting off a piece of Kabuto's horn. Itachi and Sasuke remember their time together and prepare to catch the snake.






Itachi and Kabuto clash.



Amused at the fact that though Sasuke should hate Itachi, the two seemed to be getting along well, Kabuto states that he understands that something might have happened during the brothers' battle, could not understand what Sasuke could want from a dead person. After hearing Sasuke declare that he wanted to know the truth, Kabuto surmises that Sasuke was suspicious of his brother, having already heard the truth and as such never returned to
Konohagakure
 because of his intent to destroy it for making his brother suffer. Calling Itachi a liar and stating that he had went as far as to eradicate his entire clan in order to protect the village, he asks Sasuke whether or not what he was doing was more akin to his own goals of wanting to continue what
Orochimaru
 started and destroy Konoha.

Attempting to inveigle him to his side once again, Sasuke has a flashback of a conversation he overheard with a group of Konoha-nin bad-mouthing Itachi after which he declares that he was nothing like Kabuto and that crushing Konoha was his own ambition. Recalling his life in Konoha, Kabuto begins to renounce the village and tells Sasuke that he would be his new brother. Telling his brother not to listen to Kabuto, Itachi commences his plan of action, telling his brother that he would use one of the clan's ultimate
dōjutsu
. Believing it to be
Izanagi
, Sasuke questions his brother on this. Itachi however corrects his brother as he clashes with Kabuto while wielding Sasuke's
sword
 telling him that this is another technique, able to decide destiny:
Izanami
.






Kabuto incapacitates Itachi.



Kabuto attacks the
Uchiha
 brothers with his
Sage Art: Inorganic Reincarnation
 causing the
cave formations
 to attack them. Having used his
Susanoo
 to protect Sasuke, Itachi is incapacitated between the rocks. As Kabuto retrieves a talisman from his snake, intent on rewriting Itachi's mind, Sasuke creates a ring of
Amaterasu
 flames to prevent Kabuto from taking any further action. Commending Sasuke's
strategy
, Kabuto tells him nonetheless that they were not capable of defeating him. Continuing to brag about his accomplishments, he states that of anyone currently alive, he had come the closest to the
Sage of Six Paths
 and that compared to him, the Uchiha were nothing. This prompts Sasuke to lash out at him, but he is stopped by a fully-regenerated Itachi. Itachi tells Kabuto that he reminded him of his former self though the two of them were very different. He then tells him that because he did not understand his own limitations, the value of comrades and who he really was, he was doomed to fail as he did when he was alive. With this, Kabuto retorts that they were the ones that knew nothing about him and that for his whole life, he had tried to find who he really was. With this Kabuto has a flashback to his earliest memory of being found by
Nonō
 and
Urushi
. He then states that for his whole life, he had nothing.

The Tale of Kabuto






Kabuto volunteers to go with Root.



Kabuto then remembers his first meeting with Orochimaru while aiding the wounds of several Konohagakure shinobi, declining the offer of being a
shinobi
. Nonō is later approached by
Danzō Shimura
, Orochimaru and an
Aburame
 shinobi, who blackmail her into undertaking an intelligence gathering mission based on the intel they had received that
Iwagakure
 was planning a big attack. Taking Kabuto along with them to replace a dead
Root
 member, the young man was sent on several spy mission in different hidden villages inclusive of the
Five Great Shinobi Countries
. On a mission in Iwagakure, his cover was blown and as he attempted to escape he was confronted by an Iwa-nin. Kabuto attacked the ninja with his
chakra scalpel
 severely wounding his would-be assassin, revealed to be Nonō to his horror. When Nonō did not remember him as he attempted to heal her, a shocked Kabuto ran off and left her as
Kitsuchi
 and another Iwa-nin approached them. Devastated that she did not remember him and wondering who he was, Kabuto is once again approached by Orochimaru who states that Kabuto had become quite the shinobi.






Kabuto transfusing blood containing Orochimaru's remains into himself.



Kabuto is startled by Orochimaru's approach. Orochimaru says he's been watching Kabuto and Nonō for a long time, and invites him to come with him, promising to reveal to him the reason Nonō attacked him and didn't recognise him. Orochimaru takes Kabuto to his medically-equipped hideout, telling Kabuto he's the first person he has brought there. Kabuto questions Orochimaru on why he brought him there, and Orochimaru is pleased with his enquiring nature. Orochimaru reveals that Root set up Kabuto and Nonō to kill each other, as their skilled abilities as spies with vast knowledge have made them too dangerous to be kept alive. Orochimaru then explains that Danzō told Nonō the reason Kabuto joined Root, accepting her pleas to relieve him of duty if she kills one man, Kabuto, who she would believe be someone else, having been given photos of a different child over the years.

Kabuto figures Orochimaru was sent to kill whoever survived, Orochimaru confirming this fact to a mortified Kabuto while telling him they are no different. He explains to Kabuto that he has found value in Kabuto's skill and wants his services within the newly created
Otogakure
 with the promise of a new identity. Accepting the offer, Kabuto becomes Orochimaru's spy, pretending to be a spy for
Sasori
 in order to learn about
Akatsuki
, and aids his new employer in his experiments through the years. After Orochimaru's defeat at Sasuke's hand, Kabuto injects himself with blood from the remains of Orochimaru's true form to achieve an identity of his own making.

The Three Climatic Battles






Kabuto bisects Itachi.



Having finished reminiscing about his childhood, Kabuto tells the brothers that he assimilated more than just Orochimaru's DNA, that his pawns were a show of his own power and refuses to have Itachi oppose him any longer. Even though Itachi rejects what Kabuto says, Kabuto presses on with his attack. A construct of
Sakon
 emerges from the base of his navel snake, and Kabuto uses his
Attack of the Twin Demons
 technique as he has the construct transform into
Jirōbō
, who then uses the
Earth Release: Earth Shore Return
 technique to part the circle of flames that the Uchiha brother had created around themselves. Giving them no time to react, he brings forth
Kidōmaru
 next and has him use the
Spider Web Unrolling
 technique to trap the brothers — who use Amaterasu to incinerate the uncuttable web. Moving behind the brothers and producing
Kimimaro
 next, he has him use the
Dance of the Seedling Fern
 technique to block the area behind them while also creating another web in front of them, effectively caging the brothers in. After they manage to escape, Kabuto uses
Tayuya
 and her
Demonic Flute: Phantom Sound Chains
 technique to attack the siblings with an auditory genjutsu effectively incapacitating them. Bringing forth Orochimaru himself finally, Kabuto has him transform into his white snake form and attack the brothers. The Uchiha manage to escape the genjutsu and fend the snake off by casting genjutsu on each other. Kabuto, however, appears from the mouth of the snake with a surprise attack and bisects Itachi, stating that a genius that has had everything would not understand him wanting to find his true self and then declared that no one would stand in his way with this.






Kabuto caught in Izanami.



Regenerating, Itachi called out to Sasuke as Kabuto moved to implant his talisman to rewrite Itachi's mind. Responding, Sasuke threw his
sword
 at Kabuto. Kabuto caught the sword with his navel-snake, and dodged the grasp of Sasuke's Susanoo. Sasuke launched a
fireball
 at Kabuto who countered it with a large
torrent
 of water which swept Sasuke off his feet. Through the mist created from the two clashing techniques, Kabuto noticed that Itachi, who Kabuto stabbed with the sword for him disappeared into a flurry of crows and attack Kabuto with the sword he took from him. Chastising him for using the same attack pattern he had used before to cut his horn off, to which Itachi rebuffs that he cannot be harmed also refuting Kabuto's claims that genjutsu cannot affect him, stating that it already had. This sequence of events repeats itself once again until Kabuto begins to notice the
déjà vu
, regardless of what he did differently. It was ultimately revealed that the entire new sequence of the battle was taking place within Kabuto's head, as he was trapped within Izanami.

Using this time, Sasuke questions his brother about Izanami. Itachi explains the mechanisms behind the technique, the history of their
clan
, their use of Izanagi and why Izanami was created. He then tells his brother that Kabuto would be freed from Izanami once he accepted his fate. Somewhat angered that Itachi would use a technique that the victim could escape, Sasuke questions his brother who tells him that he wanted to give Kabuto the opportunity to accept his fate — something he himself could not do during his lifetime. This explanation only served to irate Sasuke more who believed his brother to be perfect, but Itachi, refutes this claim. All throughout this, Kabuto continues to battle on in his mind, refusing to give up. Elsewhere on the battlefield, a grown up Urushi, tells one of his comrades about his
home
 and hopes that by the time he got back, his brother, Kabuto, would be there. Meanwhile at the cave, Itachi prepares to end the Summoning: Impure World Reincarnation.

As Kabuto remains incapacitated by Izanami, Sasuke questions whether undoing the Impure World Reincarnation would not mean Itachi would disappear as well. Declaring that he no longer had any attachment to the world of the living, Itachi notes that he was proud to be able to protect Konohagakure once more. Enraged to hear Itachi's motives, Sasuke states that while he could forgive his brother, he could never forgive the village for what they had done. This leads Itachi to tell his little brother that he won't be the one to change him and that he was doing this to aid Naruto Uzumaki — whom he had entrusted that task to. Itachi then proceeds to raise the
brille
 over Kabuto's eyes and uses genjutsu to order Kabuto to teach him the
hand seals
 needed to stop the Impure World Reincarnation.






Madara's complete Susanoo.



Meanwhile, the five
Kage
 struggle to hold their own against Madara's twenty-five Susanoo-clad wood clones. Amidst all the struggles, Ōnoki rallies them to fight on having been entrusted with a great task at which they could not fail. Madara notes that he needed to break Ōnoki's will as it was the most troublesome of all. Rallying to each other's side, Tsunade
transfers

chakra
 to Ōnoki who uses a large-scale Dust Release: Detachment of the Primitive World Technique which succeeds in obliterating the twenty-five clones and part of the real Madara, in one fell swoop. Splitting the cube down the middle,
Mei Terumī
 unleashes a Water Release: Water Dragon Bullet Technique which
A
 charges with
lightning
. This makes contact with Madara effectively slowing down his response time. As Madara prepares to counter, it is revealed that
sand
 was also concealed in the dragon which Gaara uses to bind Madara's movements further in order to create an opening for Ōnoki to use another
Dust Release
 thus giving time to seal him due to the regeneration process. After they declared that this was the power of the five Kage, Madara compliments them stating that he would respond with his full power as well. He then unleashes the complete version of his Susanoo stating that it would help them realise just how futile their efforts have been, regardless of being Kage.






Itachi using Kabuto to end Impure World Reincarnation technique.



The five Kage look on in shock as Madara unleashes his Susanoo. After stabilising the construct, Tsunade questions whether her
grandfather
 really fought against someone who was so much stronger than five Kage put together. Madara responds by saying that Hashirama was the only one who could defeat him and then states that it was a good thing that he wasn't here as the extent of damage to the surrounding landscape would be on a much smaller scale as he sends the Kage flying with one swing from his
sword
 — destroying the mountain range behind him in the process. Realising his full power, Ōnoki questions whether or not Madara had gone easy on him and
Mū
 in the past, to which Madara states that why should fight seriously against children. As the Kage stand to face Madara nonetheless, Ōnoki then states that they would not back down now, causing Madara to resolve himself to crushing their beliefs.

Elsewhere, Itachi then commands Kabuto to use the hand seals he had just stated to end the
Impure World Reincarnation
. Sasuke uses this time to state his resolve to Itachi and that he will destroy the village because of what it did to him before bidding farewell to Itachi. As the technique is released, the reincarnated shinobi from all-over the battlefield begin to deconstruct. Upon seeing this, a battered
Naruto
 and
B
 thanks Itachi and uses it as motivation to wrap things up with
Tobi
 as well. Before being completely decommissioned, Itachi heads towards his little brother with his hand outstretched, stating that he could still make it.






Itachi imparts his final words to his brother.



With the Impure World Reincarnation released, all the reincarnated shinobi began to fade into pillars of light. As the battle between Tobi and Naruto ensues, Naruto charges at him, stating that his opponents were in front of him as Tobi contemplates the fact that Kabuto had seemingly been defeated. Meanwhile, the five Kage struggle to combat Madara, as as he is about to deal another blow with his sword, Madara's Susanoo suddenly dissipates and he is enveloped in a beam of light, causing him to wonder what happened to the summoner. Back at the cave Itachi uses the last of his consciousness to show Sasuke his memories of the
Uchiha Clan Downfall
, showing him when he came into possession of
Shisui Uchiha
's
Sharingan
,
Konoha
 leadership's decision to move against the Uchiha clan's coup d'etat, his meeting with Tobi and ending with
Fugaku
 and
Mikoto
's last words to Itachi. With the full truth about the massacre revealed, Itachi told Sasuke that even if Sasuke never forgave him, and no matter what he decided to do from that point on, he would always love him.






Madara's soul remaining intact and continues on fighting the five Kage.



After imparting his final words to Sasuke, Itachi's soul is released from the Impure World Reincarnation after which Kabuto seems to have been released from
Izanami
. On different battlefields, all the other reincarnated shinobi's souls are being released, as the five Kage realise what was happening, they wonder who had released the technique with
Ōnoki
 noting that whomever it was, was a hero to the shinobi world. Regaining dominion over his movements,
Dan
 asks
Chōza
 to have them remove the
barrier
 which sealed him. When the barrier is released, Chōza notes the hand seals Dan used, realises his intentions and tells him to hurry and go to
Tsunade
. Using his
Spirit Transformation Technique
 to take control of his then-ascending soul, Dan flies to Tsunade's location in time to take over her body and save her from
Madara
 — who though was being released from the Impure World Reincarnation, was still making a desperate attempt to kill the Kage. Speaking with Tsunade in her subconscious, before disappearing Dan tells Tsunade that he would wait for her in the afterlife but not to follow after him just yet and leaves her with the remainder of his chakra, thus restoring her
Strength of a Hundred Seal
. After returning to the real world, Tsunade and the other Kage watch in some confusion, wondering why Madara hadn't stopped moving as yet. He then explains that if the reincarnated know the seal to end the summoning contract of the Impure World Reincarnation, they could sever ties from the summoner. With this Madara performs the seal to sever the contract and tells them to tell his summoner, that he shouldn't use
kinjutsu
 so arbitrarily.

The Return of Familiar Faces






Tobi moving on with his plan.



Reminiscing about Itachi's last words, Sasuke is tormented by questions about important aspects of a
shinobi
's life, his clan, his friends and about his existence. Just as the roof of
Kabuto
's place caves in, Sasuke manages to dodge the falling stones and rocks.
Suigetsu
 and
Jūgo
 appear, claiming, at last, to have found Sasuke. Meanwhile at the battlefield, as the five
Kage
 are still amazed to find Madara among themselves even after the
Impure World Reincarnation
 has been released, Madara exclaims that after fighting him, they might have realised he was not the type of shinobi to be under someone else's control. And that it would be a disgrace to again summon his complete
Susanoo
 when it is said that "anyone who has seen it has died". Ōnoki exclaims that they must fight and defeat Madara themselves when Mei gives up.

Meanwhile, while
Naruto
 and
Killer B
 are still fighting Tobi and his
Demonic Statue of the Outer Path
, Naruto provokes Tobi to show his real face. Angered by Naruto's provocations, Tobi decides to revive the Demonic Statue to its full form as he starts weaving the hand signs. At Kabuto's place, Jūgo declares
Anko Mitarashi
 to still be alive and exclaims that Madara is still in the living world, surprising Sasuke. As Sasuke questions them why they were still after him, Suigetsu tells him that they had found
a cool thing
 and hands Sasuke the scroll which they found at one of
Orochimaru
's hideouts. Rendered speechless for a moment by the contents, Sasuke decides to meet with with Orochimaru; explaining to a shocked Suigetsu that Orochimaru is too tough to die easily, deciding he is "going to meet the one who knows everything".






Sasuke revives Orochimaru.



Despite
Suigetsu
 giving several vehement and somewhat manic reasons why not to revive
Orochimaru
,
Sasuke
 is resigned to his decision. Moving to execute Sasuke's orders,
Jūgo
 retrieves some of
Kabuto
's DNA using his
Sage Transformation
 abilities, much to Suigetsu's disgust. After Jūgo places DNA on
Anko
's
Cursed Seal of Heaven
, Sasuke uses the
Evil Releasing Method
 to revive Orochimaru as his conscious remnants exit Anko and regenerate his body from the sample. Retreating behind Kabuto as Orochimaru emerges, Suigetsu sheepishly greets his former captor, who notes that he was abreast of the situation having been able to observe everything from within Anko, further shocking them when he tells them he has no interest in the war that was currently going on. And instead, still had his sights set on Sasuke's body, but was unable to
steal
 it in his current state. Showing him the
scroll
 he was given, Sasuke tells Orochimaru that he want to hear everything from the source, leading Orochimaru to question him if he has wavered from his path of revenge, to which Sasuke denies. Moving over to the immobile Kabuto — which prompts Suigetsu to run to the other side of the cave — Orochimaru drains Kabuto of his chakra, causing Kabuto to revert to original self. Noting to himself that Sasuke had changed since he last saw him, Orochimaru beckons him to follow him to a place he himself knows well.

While analysing the situation before them,
Naruto
,
Killer B
,
Might Guy
 and
Kakashi
 are told by
Tobi
 to bare witness to the beginning of the end once the
Ten-Tails
 is fully revived. Confused that Tobi would be able to do this, Kakashi notes that the war was all for the sake of preventing
Akatsuki
 from attaining the
Eight
 and
Nine-Tails
 and since they still had the beasts, wonders whether Tobi was lying. Remembering what Tobi had said and then the fact that they had used a clone made from its
chakra
 to evade Taka, Gyūki reminds B of this who then notifies his comrades. Speaking to Naruto directly, Kurama notes that its chakra was also present in the
Benihisago
 and
Kohaku no Jōhei
 which the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path had consumed and asks Naruto to let him speak through the boy to personally reveal what it knows to the others. As the fox explains the story behind the two
Treasured Tools of the Sage of Six Paths
, the
Gold and Silver Brothers
 and how they had come to attain its chakra after which Kakashi corroborates his story with the intel received from headquarters. With this, Kakashi declares that he would like them to do something before the beast is revived leading Tobi to retort that because Kakashi always spoke so easily, it had led him to live a life full of regret shocking both Kakashi and leading
Guy
 to question Tobi once again, on who he was. Rebuffing this, Tobi told Guy it would make no sense to tell him because he didn't remember faces. Interjecting, Kurama tells them that as Kakashi said, now was the only time to do something about the situation as the
Sage of Six Paths
 had told them that the revival of the Ten-Tails signalled the end of the world. Answering Naruto's questioning of the Ten-Tails' power, Kurama tells him of the beast's might and the fact that amongst all the names it was known by it was also seen as the progenitor of all that existed in the world. The beast then goes on to state that though even it alone would stand no chance against the beast, it may be possible since Tobi did not possess all of the Eight-Tails and its own chakra. Tobi however rebuffs this stating that he only needed the beast to cast the
Infinite Tsukuyomi
 on the world. Switching back with Kurama, Naruto declares his dreams to Tobi with Guy, Kakashi and even B (who disclaims female attributes he values, much to the Eight-Tails' shock) rally behind him. As Tobi launches into another speech, Naruto enters his
Nine-Tails Chakra Mode
 and attempts to land a high-speed
Rasengan
 attack on the statue, but Tobi blocks it with his
gunbai
 prompting Naruto to state that it seems as though he would really have to bash Tobi's mask. Tobi responds noting that there was one thing he could not part with and then declares that he would not let them touch the statue.






Naruto battling Tobi.



Formulating their strategy as Naruto produces a
shadow clone
, the shinobi agree that the use of feint attacks would be crucial in this battle because of Tobi's abilities. Moving directly towards Tobi, Naruto uses the
Super Mini-Tailed Beast Ball
 while Kakashi asks B to hoist him into the air as he activates his
Mangekyō Sharingan
. Deciding that it was best to avoid direct contact Guy takes out his pair of
Nunchaku
. Tobi, wielding his gunbai is able to stave off Naruto's attacks but ultimately has a harder time at things once Guy joins the fray. Using his nunchaku to counter Tobi's gunbai, Guy is able to sent the masked man throttling towards Naruto and his Super Mini-Tailed Beast Ball. Using that opportunity, Kakashi activates
Kamui
 with the intention of ripping the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path's neck off. However, the statue — which by this time was bleeding from the eyes and metamorphosing — is seeming able to nullify the attack which confused Kakashi greatly. As Naruto's attack is about to make contact, Tobi teleports prompting Naruto to
sense his intent
 to anticipate Tobi emerging from the ground in a surprise attack. Dodging the initial attack, Naruto, now separated from the others, has a harder time blocking Tobi's gunbai. Kakashi
imbues
 a
kunai
 with the
Lightning Release
 and once again calls out to B. Launching him across the battlefield, Kakashi easily cuts through a rock that separated him from Naruto and then launches the kunai at Tobi. Forced to become intangible, but not one to give up so easily, Tobi changed the trajectory of the kunai and sends it hurtling towards Naruto. Telling him to ignore the kunai, Kakashi uses Kamui once again to warp the kunai away. Regrouping as the last attack seemingly fails to land, the shinobi wonder how they were going to defeat Tobi. Just then a tiny crack appears on Tobi's mask.






Tobi is struck by Naruto's teleported Rasengan.



Noticing a slight crack on Tobi's mask, Guy and Naruto thought that Naruto's last attack had actually hit the mask; however Kakashi disagrees, noting that the type of crack was by a sharper object as he remembered the kunai he warped away with Kamui. As Kakashi came up with a hypothesis on Tobi's ability, Tobi erects a
barrier
 to thwart B's chance strike the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path in midst of its transformation into the Ten-Tails. Once figuring figured out a possible way to attack Tobi, Kakashi details his plans to the others. With B launching them directly at Tobi, Guy starts off unleashing his Sōshūga only for Tobi to avoid it using his dematerialisation ability and predicting Guy's moves with his
Sharingan
. As a result, Guy loses the Sōshūga and steps away from Tobi's front. Naruto then follows up quickly by launching a Rasengan, which is avoided easily by Tobi, who keeps insisting on the futility of the strategy. However, the Rasengan seemingly disperses before reaching Tobi, followed by a sudden explosion that hits his right shoulder. After being hurled away, the masked man uses his gunbai to stand back up. Tobi then realised that the attack was transported to his right arm, using Kamui, just as he was about to materialise. Realising Tobi's ability now, Kakashi notes that Tobi was not using two separate techniques to dematerialise and warp things away, but a single technique.






Kakashi uncovers the link between his and Tobi's Sharingan.



Urging Kakashi to explain it in the simplest way possible so that they could readjust their strategy, Guy and the others listen on as Kakashi explains that Tobi's ability to become intangible and absorb things were one and the same. He then explains that when he makes himself intangible, what Tobi actually does is to warp away the part of his body that was being attacked to the
other dimension
; so while it existed there, all attacks would simply phase through his body. However, since Kamui shares the same dimension, the
lightning
-enhanced kunai that Kakashi warped away, passed through the "
intangible
" part of Tobi's body and ended up in the other dimension and scratched the part of his body that was sent there in order to make him appear intangible. When questioned by B how their two techniques were linked to the same dimension, a hesitant Guy began to question Kakashi but the latter cuts across him to ask Tobi directly where he got the Sharingan from. Responding, Tobi reveals he obtained his right Sharingan eye during the
previous war
 at
Kannabi Bridge
 the moment that Kakashi became recognised as the "Hero of the Sharingan" (
写輪眼の英雄
,
Sharingan no Eiyū
). With Kakashi left speechless by the revelation, Tobi belittles him while perpetrating the
Eye of the Moon Plan
 as the right move for humanity. However, Naruto still refuses to accept Tobi's goal with the intent of not giving up his dreams. Having its
jinchūriki
 let it speak through him to chastise their opponent as well, Kurama tells Tobi that it was entrusted to Naruto, who had befriended him, for the express reason to stop Tobi. Spurred onward, Naruto enters his
Tailed Beast Mode
 and charges at Tobi.

Charging forward, Naruto attacks Tobi using a giant
chakra arms
 which Tobi simply phases through, chiding the boy of thinking that he could defeat him on his own. As Guy tries to snap Kakashi out the shock brought on from Tobi's revelation, they see the masked man send three giant
shuriken
 hurtling towards Naruto from the other dimension. Catching two of them on his tentacles, one of B and
Gyūki
's tentacles is cut by the third but is stopped by Naruto who retorts Tobi's earlier remark by telling he's never truly alone as he has Kurama and the others supporting him. Now motivated by Guy to act, Kakashi notes that he had to time the next use of his Kamui perfectly, despite Tobi chastising his "
borrowed power
" and stated intentions of showing him Kamui's true potential.






Naruto destroys Tobi's mask.



Acting immediately, Tobi jumps into the air and sends out a number of
black receivers
 which pierce B and Gyūki. Warning Naruto not to let them touch him as it sealed off the
tailed beasts
' power, Naruto creates a
shadow clone
 while being protected by Gyūki. While a clone charged forward with the
Rasengan
, the original prepared the
Tailed Beast Ball
. As the clone prepares to attack, Kakashi seemingly warps away the Rasengan again while Tobi — seeing the same attack pattern — decides to attack the clone with one of the stakes, rather than having him go through him. With the clone seemingly dispelled, Tobi phases through the Tailed Beast Ball, and fully enters the other dimension. There, Tobi is shocked to see Naruto and realises that Kakashi had warped the clone there to wait for him. Declaring that he had nowhere to run, Naruto slams the Rasengan into Tobi's face, shattering the mask with Naruto asking his enemy who he is.






Tobi's true identity is revealed.



With memories of their old friend from their days at the
Academy
 to
Chūnin Exams
 and later the former's promotion to
jōnin
, Kakashi and Guy recognise the face of the unmasked ninja to be that of their old comrade
Obito Uchiha
. Shocked by this revelation, Kakashi and Guy started asking the once masked man whether he truly was Obito, but upon seeing his Mangekyō Sharingan, Kakashi noted that there was now no doubt about it. However, Obito reiterated his point that it was insignificant what they called him, and all that mattered to him was his Eye of the Moon Plan. Kakashi had a flashback to the time when Obito died, and then asked whether he had survived the cave in. This led Naruto to ask them who the person in front of them was. Guy answered that he was a former classmate of theirs who supposedly died during the Third Shinobi World War. Kakashi, still in shock, asked Obito that if he had survived then why had he not made this fact known
until now
. Obito retorts that whether he survived or not was unimportant. However, if Kakashi really had to have an answer to why Obito had not returned, it was simply because Kakashi had let Rin die, an answer that had an amused Obito chortle over Kakashi's reaction. Even more devastated by this response, Kakashi asked him if he was going to blame him for it. Obito answered that he did not see any point in blaming this "useless" reality which would "disappear" soon enough.






Madara and Obito reunited.



Naruto tried to rally his sensei, telling him that right now, Obito's plan needed to be stopped and that he would listen to the story later. Obito used the
Fire Release: Blast Wave Wild Dance
 technique sending a giant vortex of flames towards his opponents. Kakashi, unable to register what was happening, simply stood there despite Guy calling out to him. Naruto, however, intercepted the attacks with
Kurama
's tails. Before any side could act further, they were interrupted by
Madara
's appearance on their battlefield. Standing beside the younger Uchiha, the legendary shinobi remarked that Obito seemed to be having fun, much to the onlookers' surprise as they wonder what had happened to the
Kage
.






Tsunade summons Katsuyu to save the Kage.



Madara casually replies that the Kage are "not doing so well", each having been critically wounded in their attempts to stop him. Obito returns the
gunbai
 to Madara, which he uses to block a volley of black receivers Naruto sends flying at them and
repel
 Naruto's Super Mini-Tailed Beast Ball. All the while he lectures Obito, both for initiating the Ten-Tails' revival before capturing the Eight and the Nine-Tails and for reincarnating him through the Impure World Reincarnation instead of using
Nagato
's
Outer Path — Samsara of Heavenly Life Technique
 as planned. He decides to make the best of the situation and moves to capture the Eight and the Nine-Tails in hopes to seal them in Demonic Statue of the Outer Path with the time they have left, leaving Guy and Kakashi to Obito. Kakashi takes this opportunity to question Obito about what happened to him.

Obito's Resolve

Obito has a flashback of being found and rescued by an ageing Madara after the events of the Kannabi Bridge. Madara tended to his injuries and, though he had to amputate Obito's arm, he restored it and the damaged half of his body with parts from a Zetsu. Obito was grateful for Madara's help but was adamant about returning to his team-mates: Kakashi and Rin. Time passed as he recovered and began to rehabilitate under the watch of two Zetsus: White Zetsu and a
spiral-faced Zetsu
. One day, White Zetsu returned to the hideout and alerted Obito that his comrades were in danger, surrounded by
Kirigakure
 shinobi. With the aid of the spiral-faced Zetsu forming a suit to reduce his physical limitations, Obito rushed to help them. Upon arrival, he found Kakashi's hand
running through
 Rin's chest. As Rin died, it caused Obito's Sharingan and the one he gave to Kakashi to become
Mangekyō Sharingan
. While Kakashi passed out, an enraged Obito slaughtered the Kirigakure ninja. He looked upon Rin's dead body and, devastated by her death, concluded he must be in hell.






Obito declares to a dead Rin that he will change the world.



This events changed Obito and gave him resolve to change fate by destroying the world and create a new one where Rin still lives. Remembering the Zetsus' discussion over Madara's plans to create just such a world, Obito decides to become Madara's apprentice to achieve that goal. Over time, Madara imparted Obito with all that he knew: the legend of the
Sage of Six Paths
, the
Eye of the Moon Plan
, and all the necessary steps to bring the plan to fruition. He then infused White Zetsu with a part of his mind, completing his creation with the Black Zetsu persona. Madara then took himself off of life support, dying so that he might be brought back at the planned juncture. Left with Madara's name to take as his own, with Zetsu by his side, Obito spent the following decades setting the pieces in place with his meeting with Nagato who was vital to Madara's resurrection. Inspired to cause the
Nine-Tailed Demon Fox's Attack
 after overhearing Kakashi, Obito fully embraces his new ideals when he confronted his former mentor
Minato Namikaze
.

Kakashi vs. Obito & The Ten-Tails' Return






Naruto vs. Madara.



In present time, when Madara attempts to have him see things his way,
Naruto
 declares that he is Minato's son and would not be persuaded by him. Noting that he was being lenient because Naruto was a true
jinchūriki
, declares he will no longer hold back. Creating an enormous
wooden dragon
, he notes that it had been used by Hashirama Senju in the past to bind the Nine-Tails, which prompts Naruto to manifest Kurama's body in
Tailed Beast Mode
 to fight it. Asking Obito why he chose to follow someone like Madara, the
Uchiha
 notes that all that was left was for him and Kakashi to have their final battle as he had nothing left to say to him.






Obito vs. Kakashi.



Obito and Kakashi continue their battle, with the former unleashing a barrage of shuriken only to be stopped by Kakashi's
wall of earth
. As Obito slips through the wall, Kakashi continues to ask him why and to ask him if it is related to Rin, to which Obito tells him to shut up. Obito then warps Kakashi to the
other dimension
, but his victory is short lived, as Kakashi returns using Kamui. In the meantime, Madara's Wood Dragon begins absorbing
Kurama
's chakra, causing Naruto's Tailed Beast Mode to falter. Obito begins to overwhelm Kakashi, bringing him to his knees. Madara uses Wood Release to bind
Killer B
 and
Might Guy
, then begins to activate his
Susanoo
 to finish things up on the battlefield. Resolved, Naruto notes that the Uchiha's ideals annoyed him to no end and, creating a
shadow clone
, he is able to stop both Obito's shuriken and Madara's
Susanoo Sword
 from making killing blows on Kakashi and Guy. Hearing Naruto's words that he would protect his friends, Kakashi and Guy both spring into action with the former using
Lightning Cutter
 to destroy Obito's other shuriken and Guy using
Daytime Tiger
 to attack Madara. Turning to his former friend, Kakashi tells Obito that he still remembered what he had taught him in the past and what he could do now, was protect Naruto.






The Ten-Tails is revived.



As Obito questions Kakashi's resolve, the Copy Ninja's sentiments are echoed by Guy who is severely weakened. Seeing this,
Gyūki
 notes that all
Konoha
-nin liked to act tough before taking advantage of the loosened grip of its wooden restraints and warning Naruto that the Wood Release binding could suppress a
tailed beasts
 power. Obito uses his own wood technique to attempt to restrain Naruto while he attacked Kakashi, but is sent reeling by Naruto's intercepting headbutt. Gyūki then decides to attack the
Demonic Statue of the Outer Path
 before its transformation into the Ten-Tails is complete, leaving Obito to Naruto. Naruto declares that he can see Obito's suffering face, though Obito counters by saying it is Kakashi who is truly suffering. As Naruto notes that he had to do something for Kakashi who was worn out, Kurama switches places with Naruto and throws the Copy Ninja at Obito. Though he warps Kakashi to the other dimension, Obito learns too late that Kurama revitalised Kakashi with its chakra so he can attack Obito in the other dimension whenever he uses Kamui to dodge Naruto's attacks. With Obito wounded as Kakashi returns to the real world, Naruto joins Killer B in combining their
Tailed Beast Balls
 to create a massive sphere to fire it on the
barrier
 containing the Demonic Statue. After the explosion, they note that the statue's
chakra
 vanishes, causing Kakashi to question whether this is the end. However, the revived Ten-Tails appears from the clearing smoke, prompting Obito to declare that it is was indeed the end of this world. Elsewhere, though disappointed that the Eight and Nine-Tails were not captured in time, a recovered
Madara
 notes that they should begin their plan.

The Allied Shinobi Forces vs. The Ten-Tails






The Ten-Tails battling Kurama and Gyūki.



Shocked to the see the Ten-Tails before them, Naruto surmises that they must have been tricked as he was unable to
sense
 the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path's malevolent chakra. However, Kurama tells Naruto that it was impossible to sense the beast in the Tailed Beast Mode as the beast had neither feelings nor ideals and was akin to
natural energy
 and that using
Sage Mode
 to sense how powerful it was would be a different matter. Meanwhile,
Obito
 and Madara relocate atop the beast as it attaches its tendrils onto them. Obito notes that he would like to commence the
plan
 immediately, but Madara is more in favour of testing out the beast's power. As Naruto's attempt to engage the Ten-Tails' power in Sage Mode ends in Naruto realising that it was indeed truly immeasurable, Kurama asks Gyūki to hand him Might Guy and
Kakashi
 so he could restore their chakra. Taking command, Kurama devises a battle strategy to face the beast launching a
continuous
 stream of Tailed Beast Balls, which culminates with Gyūki seemingly being decimated by the Ten-Tails' Tailed Beast Ball, but it was later revealed that Kakashi had warped it away while being launched by Naruto along with the latter's clone overhead the Ten-Tails where Kakashi released Gyūki to aim a Tailed Beast Ball. But the attack was flicked back at him, leaving Naruto's
shadow clone
 and Kakashi open for an attack. After the clone successfully pushes Kakashi out of the way, Obito reflects on how much Naruto was like himself before the Ten-Tails' attack disperses the shadow clone and sends Gyūki flying.

At their limits, Kurama and Gyūki tell Naruto and B to buy them some time while they generate more chakra for use. As the opposition notices this, and his team-mates already somewhat incapacitated, Naruto prepares to create more shadow clones which Madara chides him for, calling him incompetent. Kakashi also echoes these sentiments and Obito goes on to explain to Naruto that numbers will not change anything as he laments that all shinobi like the youth are powerless and would eventually become like him one day. This causes Naruto to lash out at Obito once again stating his dream to become
Hokage
 which leads Obito to tell him that he would make him the Hokage inside the
Infinite Tsukuyomi
 as he has the Ten-Tails prepare to fire a Tailed Beast Ball to obliterate Naruto and his allies in one blow.






The remainder of the Allied Shinobi Forces arrive.



However, when the Ten-Tails fires its Tailed Beast Ball at them, the shinobi are shocked to realise that the beast had missed. Just then, from above,
Ino
,
Hinata
,
Hiashi
 and a few others arrive and it is revealed that Ino was able to shift the blast after taking
control
 of Obito for a split second. Immediately, the
Aburame
 use the
Insect Jamming Technique
, and the
Kirigakure
-nin
shroud
 the battlefield in mist to stop them from being sensed. Shortly after this, the entire
Allied Shinobi Forces
 arrive at the battlefield, causing the
Sensing Water Sphere
 to distort, and Naruto announces that they were no longer a disorderly crowd before announcing a new technique — The Ninja Alliance Technique, which is the strongest technique that ever existed in the shinobi world and that it could win against the Infinite Tsukuyomi.






Naruto and the Allied Shinobi Forces attack Madara and Obito.



Despite the swell in numbers of their opponents, Madara and Obito note that their efforts were still futile and that even after this war, history would only repeat itself and they would end up in this very same predicament. Naruto chastises them both noting that when there was a difference of opinion in a group, the majority vote beats all. Accepting his premise, Obito simply notes that they would make their decision after exterminating the majority: The Alliance itself. Using this time
Shikaku
, through
Inoichi
's
telepathic
 ability, is able to relay the strategy he had formulated with the entire Alliance. With this, the Alliance launch their strategy, the first attempt to slow down their targets by blinding them which was executed by the
Kumo
-nin with
C
 and a few others using the
Lightning Illusion Flash of Lightning Pillar
 technique followed by
Darui
 and other
Storm Release
 bearers using the
Storm Release: Laser Circus
 technique. Secondly the
Suna
-nin use the
Wind Release: Air Current Wild Dance
 to manipulate the dust from the previous attack to obscure their opponent's vision once again, adding it to what remains of the
Insect Jamming Technique
 and
Hiding in Mist Technique
 from earlier to completely impair the opponents'
sensory
 skills. Following this,
Kitsuchi
 and a group of
Iwa
-nin
sink
 the beast into a hole allowing
his daughter
 and other
Lava Release
 bearers to cover the beast in
quicklime
 which was mixed with
water
 by the Kiri-nin. Finishing off, members of the
Konoha

Sarutobi clan

hardened
 the mixture using
Fire Release
. This leads Madara to state how surprised he was that
shinobi
 from different countries were able to pull off such a perfect combination. Shikaku informs them that they have to defeat Madara and Obito while the Ten-Tails was still restrained recommending the
Logistical Support and Medical Division
 to coordinate with Naruto to exploit Obito's weakness and telling all shinobi who were skilled in
taijutsu
 to deal with Madara.






The Ten-Tails takes on a new form.



As various shinobi as well as techniques bear down on the two Uchiha, Madara realises that they were being targeted this time. He notes, however, that in order to do that, the Alliance would have had to stop the Ten-Tails first. With this, a powerful blast sends the incoming shinobi flying away and the fully-matured Ten-Tails emerges from the pit. While the medical teams move out to tend to the injured, Shikaku, Inoichi,
Ao
 and the others discuss what was happening on the battlefield. Now finding it even harder to control the beast, Obito and Madara use
Hashirama
's cells in order to fortify their control over the beast as the former agrees with the legendary Uchiha that it was time they showed the Allied Shinobi Forces true despair. As the beast fires off a Tailed Beast Ball, Kitsuchi is able to deflect its course using
Earth Release
 underfoot the beast. A second Tailed Beast Ball is launched which detonates in a nearby lake and a third which Hiashi notes, destroys an entire town in an instant. Initially believing that the towns where the civilians were, was now unsafe, the fourth Tailed Beast Ball which is launched is noted to be heading straight for HQ as Shikaku surmised. As Inoichi asks for directives, Shikaku tells him that the only thing they could do was what they were assigned to until the very end, and for what appears to be the final time, Inoichi patches Shikaku through to the entire Alliance as the genius
Nara
 passes on his final strategy to defeat the enemy. Meanwhile, on the battlefield, Madara exclaims that they were finally able to get them with the Tailed Beast Ball, justifying the deaths of the Alliance's "
head
" was a simple war tactic.

Though
Chōji
 tries to console him over his father's death,
Shikamaru
 reminds him and Ino that they are in the middle of a war and must focus on carrying out Shikaku's final strategy. Only Naruto was unaware of Inoichi and Shikaku's deaths with the others' attempt to explain interrupted by the Ten-Tails resuming its attack. Leaping into action,
Neji
 and Hiashi are able to
deflect
 the beast's attack with everyone beginning to praise the
Hyūga clan
. Hiashi tells Naruto that he must focus in this fight while explaining to him that death is a possibility in war, adding that Shikaku and Inoichi were willingly to die for their children. Neji echoes his uncle's sentiments, referring to his own
father's sacrifice
, before he, Hiashi, and Hinata state their intent to protect Naruto to their last breath.






Neji lies dead in Naruto's arms.



Meanwhile atop the Ten-Tails, which is slowly resisting their control, Madara and Obito discuss how to proceed with their plan. However, as he is only an reanimated corpse and can not become the Ten-Tails'
jinchūriki
, Madara needs Obito to
sacrifice
 himself to become a living being once more. Taking advantage of his ancestor's dilemma, and wanting to put the Allied Shinobi Forces in further despair, Obito has the Ten-Tails attack again. As the attacks are being deflected by the Hyūga, Kitsuchi builds his chakra in preparation to use his
signature technique
. With the beast's hand itself bearing down on the group, Hiashi uses the
Eight Trigrams Vacuum Wall Palm
 to deflect it. The beast then uses a pin-point attack which Hiashi realises they could not deflect in time. As Hinata throws out her arms to protect Naruto, Neji actually intercepts the attack. Naruto calls for the medics, Neji notes that it was already too late and that he will die within minutes. As Hiashi looks on in horror and Hinata cries openly, Naruto questions why a genius from the Hyūga clan would throw away his life for him, and Neji, who notes that he finally understood his father's feelings, states that it was for that exact reason that he did it: because Naruto called him a genius and that he choose to die for those he cares for. With this, the
Byakugan-sealing juinjutsu
 on Neji's forehead disappears, confirming his death. Taking delight in Naruto being shocked, Obito attempts to shatter Naruto's self-confidence and drag him in his way of thinking.

However, Hinata slaps Naruto out of it while telling him that if his life is connected with everyone who shared his beliefs and are willingly to sacrificed themselves for him, he should not give in to despair and have Neji die in vain. By that time, as Killer B manages to cripple the Ten-Tails by lodging his Tailed Beast Ball into its mouth as it is about to fire, Naruto thanks Hinata for staying by his side and takes her hand while entering Tailed Beast Mode. Infusing some of Kurama's chakra into Hinata's body, Naruto creates shadow clones to do the same with the rest of their allies.






Naruto and Lee separate Obito and Madara from the Ten-Tails.



Empowered by Kurama's chakra with their attacks strengthen, the Allied shinobi fight back with Akimichi clan members restraining some of the Ten-Tails' tails. Remembering their fathers' final words, Ino takes over Obito's body to veer his attempted Wood Release technique off course before Shikamaru leads his Nara clan kinsmen in restraining the Ten-Tails. By that time, Team Guy make their way to the deceased Neji with
Rock Lee
 mourning his friend's death. Despite Obito mocking Guy's words of comfort of keeping those in your heart as a curse, Kakashi and Naruto rebuff this notion, the latter telling Obito that ninja are meant to endure such pain and will keep Neji in his heart even if it becomes an actual curse. As Naruto infuses Lee with some its chakra, Kurama ponders his jinchūriki's ability to match his own chakra with that of the different
shinobi
 and considered the youth to have surpassed his parents. Though Madara decides to help Obito in breaking the Nara clan's restraints, they are respectively severed from the Ten-Tails's tendrils by Lee and Naruto before the Uchiha are forced to the ground.

The Past Revealed






Sasuke's group enters Konoha.



Elsewhere in
Konoha
, though sensing Naruto's chakra as it was being given,
Sasuke
 instructs
Suigetsu
 and
Jūgo
 to press onwards with
Orochimaru
 before they arrive to the
Uzumaki Clan's Mask Storage Temple
. Though it was actually a detour, Orochimaru took one of the masks with Suigetsu unnerved by Orochimaru's choosing. After Sasuke breaks away from the group to survey the village from a high point, he and his group arrive to their destination: the remains of the ruined
Naka Shrine
. There, Orochimaru dons the mask which invokes the
Shinigami
 as it binds itself to him.






Orochimaru reincarnates the previous Hokage.



While explaining his actions, Orochimaru
slashes the Shinigami's stomach open
 to release the
souls of those it had consumed
. Though the act mortally wounded him, Orochimaru regained his hands so he can now use Impure World Reincarnation as he has Jūgo use his
natural energy
 to activate the six
Zetsu

spores
 Obito had planted on Sasuke to monitor him. With two held down by Jūgo and Suigetsu, before transferring his being into the latter's restrained White Zetsu, Orochimaru uses the remaining four as sacrifices to reincarnate the ones Sasuke needs his answers from:
Hashirama Senju
,
Tobirama Senju
,
Hiruzen Sarutobi
, and
Minato Namikaze
.

After the Senju brothers are formally introduced to Minato and learned of their blood relative
Tsunade
 serving as the current Hokage, they and Hiruzen believed they were all brought back by Orochimaru in another scheme to destroy Konoha before he clarifies his reasons for bringing them back to life. Shocked of Orochimaru's reason and that Sasuke knows the full story of the
Uchiha Clan Downfall
, Hiruzen reveals that everything the youth has learned up to this moment is true. Not surprised, Tobirama berates the
Uchiha clan
 until Orochimaru points that his actions in life set them down that path by placing them in charge of the
Konoha Military Police Force
 and separating them from the rest of Konoha. When Hashirama demanded why his brother did it, Tobirama explains that the Uchiha treasured love above all else and that through the despair of losing someone dear they gain the Sharingan and eventually evolve them. However, using
Madara
 and the love he had for his
brother
 as an example, Tobirama reveals that the same despair can also madden the user. He concludes that all had he done was an attempt to use the
Uchiha's cursed heritage
 in a positive way and cannot be blamed their self destructive nature. Hearing enough, Sasuke turns his attention to Hashirama to ask him what the meaning behind the village and ninja is so they he can determine if any of it is worth sparing. Against Tobirama's protests, having sensed his rival being also reincarnated, Hashirama tells Sasuke of his history with Madara Uchiha in an effort to save the youth from his old friend's fate by telling him his ideals.

Beginning his story at the
Warring States Period
, the time before the shinobi villages were established, Hashirama reveals that he and Madara met as children. Though enemies by birth due to their family feud, Hashirama befriended Madara as they dreamed of an ideal system where everyone could live in peace. However, when their families learned of their secret meetings, Madara severed his ties to Hashirama and became his enemy despite his former friend's pleas. Time passes and both Hashirama and Madara became leaders of their respective clans. Though Hashirama continued to revisit their plans of peace to him as he lost his entire family in the conflict, Madara remained reluctant to end the bloodshed before accepting it when Hashirama demonstrated how strong his resolve for peace was. Soon after, Konoha was formed, and despite his intent to make Madara their leader, Hashirama became Hokage by popular vote. Although he trusted Hashirama, Madara feared that a day would come where Konoha would be led by people like Tobirama, who distrusted the Uchiha. Therefore, leaving Konoha, Madara created what he considered a true method of achieving peace. However, this required Madara to capture Kurama and use its power to wipe out Konoha. This resulted in the epic battle between Hashirama and Madara that created the
Valley of the End
 and was thought to be where Madara died. Although he regretted killing Madara, his friend of so many years, Hashirama concludes by stating his notion of ninja as one who strive for their dreams yet may become an entirely different person in the process.






The reincarnated Hokage prepare to head out to the battlefield.



With his story done, Hashirama asks Sasuke if he would accept his ideals or continue embracing Madara's views of the world. Sasuke responds that his brother,
Itachi
, shared Hashirama's dreams for a unified Konoha and died protecting it. Because Madara's plan means the complete abandonment of this, Sasuke decides to fight to save what meant so much to Itachi. Orochimaru decides to join him out of curiosity, as does
Karin
, who tracked Sasuke down and immediately forgives his previous attempt to kill her. The Hokage, though earlier restrained by Orochimaru so that they would not run off to join in the war, are now given the freedom to do so. Each standing upon their own face on the
Hokage Rock
, the Hokage voice their eagerness to get things started, Minato in particular delighted that he will finally meet
his son
 and promises to make up for not being there with a huge surprise.

The Rookie Nine Reunited






The Ten-Tails unleashes Tenpenchii.



Having been disconnected from the
Ten-Tails
, Madara and
Obito

begin

attacking
.
Naruto
 manipulates the chakra cloaks he gave the Alliance and protects them as he engages Obito in a fight while debating whose values truly matter. As Madara shivers with delight upon sensing the
reincarnated

Hashirama
's chakra, the Ten-Tails breaks free from
Kitsuchi
's earth
restrains
, and begins to act on its destructive impulses.
Kakashi
 tries to
warp
 it away, but is pulled into a fight with Obito as both are sucked into the
other dimension
 while the Ten-Tails' power creates
multiple natural disasters
 all over the battlefield. As the Nine-Tails' chakra shrouds disappear after protecting the Shinobi Alliance from the worst of the Ten-Tails' attack, the monster reacts to the sight of Naruto with the
tailed beasts
 and the
Sage of Six Paths
's silhouette around him, the shinobi form a defensive line to give
Sakura
 time to
heal
 Naruto. Madara notes his growing disinterest in the battle and that another awaits him.






Obito uses genjutsu to show Kakashi how empty he is.



Within the other dimension, Kakashi and Obito continue their battle with Kakashi stopping just short of driving his
Lightning Cutter
 through Obito's heart. Obito is surprised to find Kakashi hesitating and asks if he is wracked with guilt for not keeping his promise. Still wanting to save Obito, realising his friend's malice towards Naruto is based on not wanting to be rejected by the boy he once was, Kakashi explains to him that he can still be that person again. But Obito laughed, and phased through Kakashi's technique. Effectively recreating the scene how Kakashi had impaled
Rin
, Obito reveals that he knows why Rin died and notes that he did not wage a war just because of her death and Kakashi's inability to keep his promise to protect her, but because of the hell that the villages and their shinobi put him through made him empty and devoid of almost all feeling. When offered a place in the
Eye of the Moon Plan
, Kakashi questions Obito if the delusion would truly fill the hole in his heart and, stating from experience, that states his intent of not letting Obito's discarded ideals go to waste.






The Hokage arrive.



Back in the real world, having seen the tailed beasts inside Naruto, the Ten-Tails is violently reacting to their presence by transforming once again while charging its attack. As it charges a devastating
Tailed Beast Ball
,
Shikamaru
 comes up with a plan of using all the remaining members of the alliance to create lots of
weaker earthen walls
 to redirect the attack with
Gyūki
's assistance. After consulting with Kitsuchi, and having
Ino
 pass the info about, Shikamaru has
Killer B
 take point. As Sakura rallies their forces while healing Naruto, the Shinobi Alliance carries out the plan to hinder the Ten-Tails' attack. However, despite B's support, the Ten-Tails' Tailed Beast Ball was about to breach until it was
sent to the sea
 by the recently reincarnated
Minato
 just as he arrived. Once explaining himself, Minato muses over Sakura's similarity to
Kushina
 as the other
Hokage
 arrive. Madara gets giddy at the sight of Hashirama as the First Hokage states he will deal with the Ten-Tails first as he and his successors use
Four Red Yang Formation
 technique to trap the beast, with Hashirama adding an
additional seal
, pinning down the beast's tails.






After more than three years, Team 7 is reborn.



By then,
Sasuke
 arrives with
Jūgo
 as the remaining members of the
Konoha 11
 surround Naruto. However, not caring what they think of him, Sasuke explains that he no longer wishes to destroy Konoha but to make changes to it. Stating that becoming Hokage is the only way to achieve that new goal, Sasuke gets into a minor dispute with Naruto over it before Hashirama reminds the two of their current situation. Though told to rest as they are about to join the Hokage, Sakura explains to Naruto and Sasuke that she is no longer the weak girl from a few years ago as she trained under a
Sannin
 member like they were. This prompts Naruto to note that the
Team 7
 is back as they and the reformed
Rookie Nine
 charge into battle once the Hokage's barrier is complete with the Ten-Tails unable to escape. After adding one more seal, Hashirama creates
five wood clones
, four to make an opening for the Allied Ninja's and one to confront Madara who decides to stand down until the original is ready. Once inside, the group find themselves facing
an army of Ten-Tails clones
 with Sakura
using
 what she learned from
Tsunade
 to wipe out some of the creatures, much to her team-mates' shock before they save her when she momentarily left her guard down. The rest of the Rookie Nine follow suit by displaying their own newly mastered abilities:
Kiba
's
Human Beast Mixture Transformation — Three-Headed Wolf
,
Shino
's
Parasitic Giant Insect Bug Bite
 and
Team Asuma
's Ino–Shika–Chō "Formation E"
Human Bullet Yo-Yo
. Even
Sai
 joins the fray though ends up being saved by Naruto.






Gamakichi, Katsuyu, and Aoda summoned to the battlefield.



With the number of the Ten-Tails' clones having an advantage over the
Allied Shinobi Forces
, Sai points out the only way to beat the Ten-Tails is to defeat its largest extension to get close enough to it. Though the attempt is risky and could be fatal, Naruto has a solution as he summons
Gamabunta
 but finds a large
Gamakichi
 aiding him instead. Sasuke and Sakura have a similar conclusion and follow suit by summoning
Aoda
, in place of the deceased
Manda
, and
Katsuyu
 respectively. As Sakura has Katsuyu provide
aid
 to the Shinobi Alliance's wounded, Naruto and Sasuke use their summons to fight through to the Ten-Tails. Once there, glad to have Sasuke as an ally again, Naruto
combines
 his
Ultra-Big Ball Rasenshuriken
 with Sasuke's
Blaze Release: Susanoo Kagutsuchi
 to land a blow on the Ten-Tails. While Naruto and Kurama were intent to extract the tail beasts inside the Ten-Tails, Sasuke is intent to incinerate the monster in its entirety before it severed the burning piece of its body with no intention of going peacefully.






Karin and Suigetsu aiding in Tsunade's healing.



Elsewhere,
Orochimaru
 arrives with
Suigetsu
 and Karin to where
Tsunade
 and the other Kage are being tended to by
Katsuyu
. Though the slug is wary at first, it eventually agrees to them assisting because of Tsunade's dire condition. While Suigetsu aids in putting Tsunade bifurcated halves back together, Karin has Tsunade
bite her
 so that she can recover which in turn allows Katsuyu to heal her injuries. After a brief conversation about Orochimaru's change of heart, Orochimaru and his companions leave for the battlefield. While Tsunade and the other healed
Kage
 are briefed on battle by Katsuyu, they make preparations to head to the battlefield. Back on the battlefield, Sai continues to question Sasuke's true motives and while Sakura notes that she had faith in Sasuke, Sai noted that her eyes did not reflect this.

The Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki






The culmination of Obito vs. Kakashi.



Back in the
other dimension
, the conflict between Kakashi and Obito rages on as both think back to their childhood days as Minato's students. With Kakashi intent to protect both Naruto and the "old Obito" from the latter's current incarnation, Kakashi manages to impale Obito with a
Lightning Cutter
-
infused

kunai
. However, the heavily wounded Obito stabs Kakashi with one of his
black rods
 while telling him that his defeat will not turn the tide in the war as he returns to their reality. Appearing atop the Ten-Tails,
Madara
 notices his arrival. Obito finds himself betrayed by his mentor who decided it is time for Obito to return favour for saving him in the past. Using the black receivers in the artificial parts of Obito's body, Madara forces him to perform the
Outer Path — Samsara of Heavenly Life Technique
 so become truly alive and become the Ten-Tails'
jinchūriki
.






Obito becomes the Ten-Tails' jinchūriki.



Realising Madara's intent, Hashirama sends Naruto and Sasuke to stop Obito while he and Tobirama create an army of clones as a contingency plan. Minato also creates a clone to attack Obito, learning the truth that his former student had been alive the whole time while realising his student's role in the
Nine-Tailed Demon Fox's Attack
. Later on, Madara noticed that Obito managed to resist his control as he
absorbs
 the freed Ten-Tails inside his body, becoming its jinchūriki in his mentor's place. With his body completely healed, and Killer B confirming with Gyūki that the Ten-Tails had not reached its final form yet, Obito proceeds to destroy the Four Red Yang Formation. As the other Hokage deal with Obito to find a weak point, learning there a substance on his skin that makes him invincible to attacks, Hashirama ends up being confronted by Madara who decides to settle things with his rival once and for all.

Chapters

#

English title

Publication cover date

Volume number

560

"
Madara Uchiha
"

7 November 2011

59

561

"
The Power of That Name
"

14 November 2011

59

562

"
The Place Where We Pick Ourselves Up
"

21 November 2011

59

563

"
The Five Kage Gathered…!!
"

28 November 2011

59

564

"
The Man Who isn't Anyone
"

12 December 2011

59

565

"
Jinchūriki vs. Jinchūriki!!
"

1 January 2012

59

566

"
Eyes and Beasts
"

8 January 2012

60

567

"
The Jinchūriki of the Village of Konoha
"

15 January 2012

60

568

"
The Four-Tails: King of the Sage Monkeys
"

22 January 2012

60

569

"
Proof of Intentions!!
"

30 January 2012

60

570

"
Kurama!!
"

6 February 2012

60

571

"
Tailed Beast Mode!!
"

13 February 2012

60

572

"
Nine Names
"

20 February 2012

60

573

"
The Continuing Path towards Radiance
"

27 February 2012

60

574

"
Eyes that See the Darkness
"

5 March 2012

60

575

"
Will of Stone
"

12 March 2012

60

576

"
The Guidepost of Reunion
"

19 March 2012

61

577

"
Blade of Hatred
"

26 March 2012

61

578

"
The Weakness of Despair!!
"

2 April 2012

61

579

"
Brothers, Fight Together!!
"

9 April 2012

61

580

"
The Brothers' Time
"

16 April 2012

61

581

"
Everyone's Konoha
"

23 April 2012

61

582

"
Nothing
"

30 April 2012

61

583

"
Who is This?
"

7 May 2012

61

584

"
Kabuto Yakushi
"

21 May 2012

61

585

"
To Be Myself
"

28 May 2012

61

586

"
Izanami's Activation
"

4 June 2012

61

587

"
When It Turns 9 o'clock
"

11 June 2012

61

588

"
The Burden of Being a Kage
"

18 June 2012

62

589

"
Impure World Reincarnation Technique: Release
"

25 June 2012

62

590

"
I Will Love You Forever
"

9 July 2012

62

591

"
Risk
"

16 July 2012

62

592

"
The Third Power
"

23 July 2012

62

593

"
Orochimaru's Revival
"

30 July 2012

62

594

"
The Progenitor
"

6 August 2012

62

595

"
Crack
"

13 August 2012

62

596

"
One Technique
"

27 August 2012

62

597

"
The Secret of the Space–Time Ninjutsu
"

3 September 2012

62

598

"
Shattered!!!!
"

10 September 2012

63

599

"
Obito Uchiha
"

17 September 2012

63

600

"
How Come Until Now?
"

24 September 2012

63

601

"
Obito and Madara
"

1 October 2012

63

602

"
Alive
"

8 October 2012

63

603

"
Rehabilitation
"

15 October 2012

63

604

"
Reunion, and Then
"

22 October 2012

63

605

"
Hell
"

29 October 2012

63

606

"
Dream World
"

5 November 2012

63

607

"
I Don't Care Any More
"

12 November 2012

63

608

"
Kakashi's Decision!!
"

26 November 2012

64

609

"
End
"

3 December 2012

64

610

"
Ten-Tails
"

10 December 2012

64

611

"
Arrival
"

1 January 2013

64

612

"
Allied Shinobi Forces Technique!!
"

8 January 2013

64

613

"
Head
"

15 January 2013

64

614

"
By You
"

22 January 2013

64

615

"
The Connected Ones
"

29 January 2013

64

616

"
The Invisible Dancers
"

4 February 2013

64

617

"
The Invisible Dancers — 2
"

9 February 2013

64

618

"
The Ones Who Know Everything
"

18 February 2013

65

619

"
A Clan Possessed by Evil
"

25 February 2013

65

620

"
Hashirama Senju
"

4 March 2013

65

621

"
Hashirama and Madara
"

11 March 2013

65

622

"
Reached
"

18 March 2013

65

623

"
One View
"

25 March 2013

65

624

"
Draw
"

8 April 2013

65

625

"
The Real Dream
"

15 April 2013

65

626

"
Hashirama and Madara — 2
"

22 April 2013

65

627

"
Sasuke's Answer
"

29 April 2013

65

628

"
Now and Hereafter
"

20 May 2013

66

629

"
Windhole
"

27 May 2013

66

630

"
What Can Fill a Hole
"

3 June 2013

66

631

"
Team 7
"

10 June 2013

66

632

"
Fighting Together
"

17 June 2013

66

633

"
Forward
"

24 June 2013

66

634

"
A New Three-Way Deadlock
"

1 July 2013

66

635

"
A New Wind
"

8 July 2013

66

636

"
The Current Obito
"

15 July 2013

66

637

"
The Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki
"

22 July 2013

66

638

"
The Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki: Obito
"

29 July 2013

67

639

"
Attack
"

5 August 2013

67

Episodes

#

Episode Title

Japanese Airdate

English Airdate

322

"
Madara Uchiha
"

25 July 2013

5 December 2015

323

"
The Five Kage Assemble
"

1 August 2013

12 December 2015

324

"
The Unbreakable Mask and the Shattered Bubble
"

8 August 2013

18 December 2015

325

"
Jinchūriki vs. Jinchūriki
"

15 August 2013

24 December 2015

326

"
Four-Tails, the King of Sage Monkeys
"

22 August 2013

31 December 2015

327

"
Nine-Tails
"

29 August 2013

7 January 2016

328

"
Kurama
"

29 August 2013

14 January 2016

329

"
Two-Man Team
"

5 September 2013

21 January 2016

330

"
The Promise of Victory
"

12 September 2013

28 January 2016

331

"
Eyes That See in the Dark
"

19 September 2013

4 February 2016

332

"
A Will of Stone
"

26 September 2013

11 February 2016

333

"
The Risks of the Impure World Reincarnation
"

3 October 2013

18 February 2016

334

"
Sibling Tag Team
"

10 October 2013

25 February 2016

335

"
To Each Their Own Leaf
"

24 October 2013

4 March 2016

336

"
Kabuto Yakushi
"

31 October 2013

11 March 2016

337

"
The Izanami Activated
"

7 November 2013

18 March 2016

338

"
Izanagi and Izanami
"

14 November 2013

25 March 2016

339

"
I Will Love You Always
"

21 November 2013

5 July 2016

340

"
Impure World Reincarnation: Release!
"

28 November 2013

5 July 2016

341

"
Orochimaru's Return
"

5 December 2013

5 July 2016

342

"
The Secret of the Space–Time Ninjutsu
"

12 December 2013

5 July 2016

343

"
Who Are You?
"

19 December 2013

5 July 2016

344

"
Obito and Madara
"

9 January 2014

5 July 2016

345

"
I'm in Hell
"

16 January 2014

5 July 2016

346

"
World of Dreams
"

23 January 2014

5 July 2016

347

"
Creeping Shadow
"

23 January 2014

5 July 2016

348

"
The New Akatsuki
"

30 January 2014

5 July 2016

362

"
Kakashi's Resolve
"

15 May 2014

17 January 2017

363

"
The Allied Shinobi Forces Technique
"

22 May 2014

17 January 2017

364

"
The Ties That Bind
"

5 June 2014

17 January 2017

365

"
The Invisible Dancers
"

12 June 2014

17 January 2017

366

"
The All-Knowing
"

19 June 2014

17 January 2017

367

"
Hashirama and Madara
"

3 July 2014

17 January 2017

368

"
Warring States Period
"

10 July 2014

17 January 2017

369

"
My True Dream
"

24 July 2014

17 January 2017

370

"
Sasuke's Answer
"

31 July 2014

17 January 2017

371

"
Hole
"

7 August 2014

17 January 2017

372

"
Something to Fill the Hole
"

14 August 2014

17 January 2017

373

"
Team 7, Assemble!
"

21 August 2014

17 January 2017

374

"
The New Three-Way Deadlock
"

28 August 2014

17 January 2017

375

"
Kakashi vs. Obito
"

4 September 2014

4 April 2017

References