The
Fourth Division
 (
第四部隊
,
Daiyon Butai
,
Viz:
 Fourth Company), also known as the
Long-Range Battle Division
 (
戦闘遠距離部隊
,
Sentō Enkyori Butai
,
English TV:
 Long-Range Battle Unit), was a battalion in the
Allied Shinobi Forces
 led by
Gaara
 of
Sunagakure
, formed in preparation for the
Fourth Shinobi World War
.

Composition

The Fourth Division is composed of several thousands of shinobi and samurai alike who mainly focus on long-range combat. According to its proxy commander
Shikamaru Nara
 in the anime, the division is used as a defence for the supporting units, as well as a support for the other main divisions itself.
 The division also has a sub-division which is specialised in the usage of the chakra nature
wind
.

History






The Fourth Division heads towards its battlefield alongside the First Division.



Upon its formation, the Fourth Division is mobilised to the rocky and barren terrain near the southern edge of the
Land of Lightning
. Gaara scatters a significant quantity of
sensing sand
 in front of his unit which allowed him to detect an approaching,
reincarnated

Mū
, the Second
Tsuchikage
.
 He later uses his
Third Eye
 to observe the opposition, only to see him summon the
Second Mizukage
, the
Third Raikage
 and his father, the
Fourth Kazekage
.

Knowing four
Kage
 will be difficult to defeat, headquarters dispatches
Ōnoki
 to provide assistance, in particular regards to countering the threat posed by Mū's
techniques
.
 Headquarters also restructures the Fourth Division to prepare for the inevitable encounter with the Kage, while accounting for the other concurrent battles taking place. These orders dictate that the Fourth Division will start to retreat while forming into a sideways chevron (">") formation. They are then expected to keep the opposition at bay, until the top part of their arrangement can break away and provide assistance to the overwhelmed
First Division
, with them only returning accompanied by further aid once these enemies are defeated.






The supporting part of the Fourth Division is confronted by the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path.



Acting in accordance with this strategy,
Shikamaru Nara
 successfully leads part of their forces to the First Division, leaving the remainder of the division to continue their withdrawal and await the Kage's response. Immediately upon their arrival, these vital reinforcements are instrumental in
sealing
 the
rampaging

Kinkaku
, with Shikamaru adhering to his
father
's instructions by collaborating with both
Chōji Akimichi
 and the
Fifth Division
's
Ino Yamanaka
 in order to accomplish this deed.
 Continuing the confrontation, the subsection of the Fourth Division is split amongst numerous assignments occurring throughout the battlefield, with the current generation
Ino–Shika–Chō
 employed once again in the intention of defeating their deceased mentor,
Asuma Sarutobi
.
 Despite encountering difficulties in completing such an arduous task, due in part to their reluctance of opposing a former comrade, a freshly
resolved
 Chōji eventually manages to
immobilise
 Asuma and then in an attempt to conclude the battle, sorties to the other areas in need of assistance.
 Annihilating the remaining opposition, relief momentarily embraces the battlefield, until
Tobi
 summons the
Demonic Statue of the Outer Path
 and commands it to attack.
 Sustaining considerable casualties throughout the duration of the confrontation and in the wake of the enormous creature, the judgment is made to attend to the wounded during the night, before proceeding to converge with the rest of the Fourth Division the following day.






Gaara clashes with the Fourth Kazekage.



Relentlessly pursued by the reincarnated Kage throughout the entire night and unable to maintain such a stance for much longer, Gaara and Ōnoki decided that it was now time to go on the offensive, if only to observe their adversaries' reaction. Unleashing a colossal wave of sand with the intention of restraining and then
obliterating
 the opposition in the ensuing chaos, both of the attacks prove ineffective in the face of the Fourth Kazekage's
Gold Dust
 and Mū's counter respectively.
 After a brief reprieve as the two sides converse, with Gaara's history and status amongst the discussed, the battle recommences amidst a collision of
gold
 and sand. Finally receiving the awaited signal, the remainder of the division advances along a broad front, just as Gaara
pelts
 the opposition's position. Utilising this distraction to restrain the enemy in an immobilising embrace, Mū and Ōnoki become separated from the main engagement in the resultant confusion.
 A tearful Gaara then proceeds to complete his father's
binding
, before attempting to do the same with the remaining Kage, however, the two easily break free of the sand's confines when their bodies' react instinctively towards this threat. Storming the other shinobi as they maintain their approach, the recovering troops quickly encircle and besiege the unconstrained enemy, while elsewhere Ōnoki begins to experience difficulty in confronting his former mentor alone. In light of the rising fatalities, both the Mizukage and Raikage divulge their respective weaknesses to hasten their defeat, but causalities continue to mount due to the former's
summon
.






The Fourth Division faces the Third Raikage.



They were eventually able to seal Mū and later the Third Raikage with the aid of a
Naruto
 clone who had appeared on the battlefield. The section of the division had however, been dwindled down to a handful of shinobi by the time both battles were over. With this, those that were left headed out to backup Gaara and the other half of their division that was facing the Second Mizukage.






Madara sends two meteorites down upon the Fourth Division.



Immediately after the Second Mizukage's defeat to Gaara and Ōnoki, it is revealed that Mū evaded being sealed by
splitting his body into two exact and entirely independent parts
. After more time passes, Mū performs the
Summoning Technique
 and summons
Madara Uchiha
. After the division is alerted by a sensor that someone was coming, Gaara stares in shock as he sees Mū and Madara Uchiha appear on a cliff. Gaara wonders what was going on, drawing their attention to Madara's eyes that gave away the fact that he was reincarnated. On this revelation the division stands in shock wondering just who the masked man that claimed to be Madara really was then. Madara then fought the Fourth Division and quickly took the upper hand. He used his power to
draw a meteorite
. Ōnoki flew into the sky and used his
Earth Release: Super Light-Weight Rock Technique
 in an attempt to stop it. Along with the aid of Gaara and his sand, he was finally able to stop the meteorite. However,
Madara
 quickly drew another meteorite which collided with the first one. According to Ao who is at the Alliance's Headquarters, most of the Fourth Division was killed. Madara's attack on the Fourth Division was not over as he decided to test his Wood Release on them. A Naruto clone, who had been given more chakra by the Nine-Tails destroyed the opposing forest. Ōnoki prepared to take on Madara. Just about in time,
Tsunade
 and
A
 arrives using
Mabui
's
Heavenly Transfer Technique
, repelling Madara and Mū.
Mei Terumī
 also arrived with
Genma Shiranui
 and
Raidō Namiashi
, through the
Flying Thunder Formation Technique
.

Eventually, the survivors of Madara's assault and the other half of the Fourth Division meet up with the rest of the Allied Shinobi Forces and are sent to support
Naruto Uzumaki
 and
Killer B
 against the
Ten-Tails
 under the command of Madara and
Obito Uchiha
.

References