"
Friends…!!
" (
友達…!!
,
Tomodachi…!!
,
Viz:
 Friends!!) is chapter 12 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 manga.

Synopsis

Boruto
 meets
Tentō
 at the
Konoha Mountain Villa
 and soon realises that the
daimyō
 has rented out the entire hotel. Tentō soon dismisses this trail of conversation, as he is way more interested in seeing Boruto use
ninjutsu
. While hesitant at first, Boruto displays the use of the
Shadow Clone Technique
 to Tentō, and while he was momentarily awed, he soon lamented the fact that he heard the
Seventh Hokage
 could produce thousands of clones compared to Boruto's five. Now prompted to display the
Transformation Technique
, Boruto opts for shock value and instead uses the
Sexy Technique
 followed by the
Harem Technique
. This, however, has no effect on Tentō other than causing him to launch into a fit of laughter. After the laughter subsides, Tentō plainly states that this was nothing unusual to him because women were usually parading through his house.

This laughter prompts Boruto to chide Tentō, stating that he probably had no friends. Unperturbed, Tentō matter-of-factly says that Boruto was his friend and that he had always wanted a
shinobi
 for a friend that was his own age. Now excited by the prospect, Tentō decides to show his
Extreme: Shinobi Picture Scrolls
 card collection to Boruto, who is equally amazed by the collection. Tentō tells Boruto that he can take whichever card he wants, especially after Boruto realises that Tentō has an extremely rare card that he has been after for the longest time. Tentō explains that it isn't hard for him to collect the cards (all of which he has in duplicates) since his father gifted him with a no-limit credit card for his birthday. He introduces a catch, however: Boruto must teach him how to use ninjutsu. Boruto agrees to train him but declines the collectable card as payment, stating that he would rather try on his own to get the card. Soon after
shurikenjutsu
 training gets underway, Tentō becomes demotivated, which leads the two to have a deeper conversation on why Tentō wants to learn ninjutsu: an attempt to get his
father
 — who holds great admiration for shinobi — to notice him. Resonating with him, Boruto rallies Tentō to try harder before they are stopped by
Yamaoka
, who disapproves of the activity deeming it beneath the heir to a daimyō. Persuaded, Yamaoka allows Tentō to continue his training while in
Konohagakure
, which soon reveals progress, and Tentō is able to hit the centre of a mark. While on a well-earned break, Boruto gives Tentō his collectable Seventh Hokage card and shares his own experience with being acknowledged with the overjoyed young man and his dream to become someone who can support the
Hokage
, like
Sasuke Uchiha
. Sometime later, as the daimyō's delegation prepares to leave, Tentō asks if he can see Boruto again, to which the latter replies that it was a rhetorical question between friends. Meanwhile, a member of the
Mujina Bandits
 watches on all the while communicating with his boss
Shojoji
 who it turns out is disguised as Yamaoka.