The
Frog Kata
 is a fighting style used exclusively by those who have mastered
Sage Mode
 and trained with the
toads
 of
Mount Myōboku
. The
senjutsu chakra
 used during Sage Mode "
activates
" the body in various ways, enhancing the user's speed, reflexes, strength, stamina and durability. This allows a sage to achieve incredible feats which include leaping great distances, shattering sharp materials with their bare hands, as well as lifting massive objects. It is said to be a flawless taijutsu that has no openings in either attack or defence.

When using Frog Kata, the
natural energy
 used by the practitioner to create senjutsu chakra also surrounds the user in an aura of that same natural energy. This aura can act as an extension of their body and cannot be seen by anyone other than those who have trained in senjutsu. By utilising the aura, the user can extend the range and force of their physical attacks. Strikes that seemingly or would normally miss will actually make contact with the target. Only users of Sage Mode can see or sense this aura's extension. Nothing else, not even the
Rinnegan
 can see it. One punch has been shown to have enough force to cripple and completely finish off an opponent, not unlike
Chakra Enhanced Strength
.

In addition, the enhanced speed, reflexes and heightened chakra-
sensing
 from Sage Mode, combined with the skilful body movements of Frog Kata, allows the practitioner to not only evade enemy strikes at the last possible moment, but accurately counterattack an opponent.

Trivia

Kata
 is a martial arts term referring to a pattern of defence-and-attack.

In the anime, Naruto could use Frog Kata to break a Version 2 chakra cloak.

It is a reoccurring theme that Frog Kata is used or given reference to by an enthused Naruto after he successfully lands a nature energy-enhanced Rasengan of some variant. This first occurs in his battle against
Pain
, and later against the
Ten-Tails
'
jinchūriki
 after discovering his weakness to senjutsu-based techniques.

References