"
From the Bottom of My Heart
" (
心の底から
,
Kokoro no Soko kara
) is chapter 70 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 manga.

Summary

Ada
 pauses to consider
Shikamaru
's offer as he reiterates the
Kawaki
 angle. She activates her
Senrigan
, and
Code
 protests against being left behind, but Ada tells him she has every right to consider it. Shikamaru wonders what she's doing with her eye.
Naruto
 arrives at the door, but is unable to open it. Shikamaru contacts him through
Ino
's
jutsu
, explaining it's a precaution against the enemy's jutsu, and asks him not to interfere or force his way through the door.
Sasuke
 and
Boruto
 arrive as well. Ada asks Shikamaru if she locked Naruto and the others outside to protect them from her ability, shocking him with her knowledge. In thought, he understands it's about her eye, and
Amado
 chimes in, filling him in on the Senrigan's abilities. Shikamaru is very glad for Ino's jutsu. Ada confesses being surprised by his offer, having assumed they'd see her as an enemy over being part of
Kara
, and concedes there's no cause for hostility between her and
Konoha
. Shikamaru adds that if she continues to ally herself with Code, she will be considered an enemy.
Sumire
 asks Kawaki how's the situation after what happened between him and Boruto.
 He says Amado restored the
Kāma
 without his permission, which Sumire speculates happened when his arm was repaired. He confesses he did want it back, and was glad to have it for the first time, as Naruto would be dead otherwise, admitting he needs it. Sumire shares her suspicions about Amado. Code continues torturing Amado, blaming his stalling for the turn of events, and demands the command code. In thoughts, Amado warns Shikamaru he won't last long, who instead points out that Code can't kill him before getting the code, otherwise he'll never get rid of the limiters. Amado thinks he'll die of shock first. Ada suddenly tells Code they have to retreat because Kawaki is coming towards them. Shikamaru realises that Kawaki can
shrink himself
 and enter the room through an air vent. Code is frustrated by it, and Shikamaru attributes it to Kawaki being able to nullify his
Claw Marks
. Amado adds that Ada's enchantment doesn't work on blood relatives or
Ōtsutsuki
. Shikamaru is angry he didn't share that before. Amado thinks Shikamaru would call Kawaki to fight, but he almost died before when it was just Code without Ada, and he can't risk Kawaki dying. He thinks that Shikamaru would find advantageous if Code or Kawaki or both died fighting each other. Ino reminds them it's not time to argue. Amado wants to let Ada and Code retreat, as they'll have another chance, and in the mean time both Boruto and Kawaki can get stronger. Code sends Amado through a Claw Mark, though he wishes he could avoid taking him to their base. Ada hurries him, but Shikamaru
paralyses
 Code with his shadow, and asks Ino where is Kawaki. Ada asks
Delta
 for help, so she kicks Shikamaru, who dodges, but loses focus on his jutsu. As she leaves, Ada apologises, thanking him for his offer and Delta for her help. She hopes them meet again and tells Delta she loves her. Delta reciprocates it. Code tells Shikamaru he's been added to his revenge list, and leaves. Kawaki arrives and grows back to normal size. He notices the Claw Marks and asks where Code is. Shikamaru requests that he gets rid of the marks, and believes Amado might already be dead when Kawaki asks about him. Back in their base,
Daemon
 greets Amado. He confirms that Code will most likely kill him after having the power limiters rescinded. Amado says that's poor motivation, but Code thinks that freedom from pain and peace in death are too good for him. Amado offers to remove his limiters without any resistance if he's spared. Code wonders if he has no pride, but Amado considers it an useless concept. Code tells him to stop wasting time, and Amado issues a command. Code releases some smoke, his appearance changing a bit, including white eye lashes. He feels good feeling like he can't lose to anyone. He asks Amado if his wounds hurt, and feeling good, offers to free him from suffering with death, lifting his clawed arm.