Fuguki Suikazan
 (
西瓜山河豚鬼
,
Suikazan Fuguki
) was a
jōnin
 from
Kirigakure
 and a member of the
Seven Ninja Swordsmen of the Mist
.

Background






Fuguki and his teammates encounter Team Chōza.



At some point in time, Fuguki became a jōnin and joined the Seven Ninja Swordsmen of the Mist, where he inherited the sword
Samehada
. Some time after the
Third Shinobi World War
, Fuguki alongside the other seven swordsmen, cornered a
team
 of
Konoha
 shinobi consisting of
Might Guy
,
Ebisu
, and
Genma Shiranui
. Before the swordsmen could attack,
Might Duy
 intervened and fought off Fuguki and his teammates, by using the
Eight Gates
 at the cost of his life,
 taking down four of Fuguki's allies in the anime.






Fuguki being killed by Kisame.



Some time later, Fuguki assigned his subordinate
Kisame Hoshigaki
, to the secret
Cypher Division
 to serve as a bodyguard, ordering him to protect his comrades. However, he stressed that the codes that were important to the village are worth far more than the lives of his comrades. With this set of priorities, Kisame resolved to massacre his own teammates when they were in danger of falling into the hands of
Ibiki Morino
 during a mission to protect such valuable information. Later, Fuguki was revealed to have been leaking information to enemies, and was killed by Kisame, with his corpse visibly impaled by sharp implements tied to chains. Kisame would then take Samehada for himself, becoming a member of the Seven Swordsmen,
Yagura
's direct subordinate and
Madara Uchiha
's accomplice.

Personality

Fuguki seemed to believe that protecting vital intelligence from the enemy was more important than the lives of comrades. He preached this to Kisame, telling him that he should take any action necessary in order to stop information about their village from falling into enemy hands. Ironically, Fuguki betrayed his village, selling information to the enemies, making him a hypocrite of his belief; this crime, coupled with Fuguki dropping his guard during a meeting, led to his death at Kisame's hands.

Appearance

Fuguki's appearance as a member of the Seven Ninja Swordsmen.
Fuguki's appearance after being reanimated.
1/2

By far the tallest and largest member of the Seven Ninja Swordsmen of the Mist, Fuguki's most distinctive trait was his fish-like appearance. He had small round eyes and like most of the other members of the Seven Ninja Swordsmen of the Mist, sharp jagged teeth. He had long, orange hair that reached into his back with some pinned up at the top. He also had six green stripes on his face. Attire-wise he wore the standard striped jumpsuit of Kirigakure, a black outfit over it as well as a white cloak/robe over it and Samehada strapped over his shoulder via a large belt decorated by a tassel. He also wore the Kirigakure
forehead protector
 and standard shinobi sandals, and as with all the swordsmen of the previous generation, he had bandages wrapped loosely around his neck.

Abilities






Fuguki using Hair Needle Senbon.



As one of the Seven Ninja Swordsmen of the Mist, Fuguki was one of the most powerful shinobi produced within Kirigakure. Fuguki's generation of swordsmen were noted to be the strongest in the village's history and, just like those other members, he too was capable of using
Silent Killing
, as seen when fighting the
Third Division
 of the
Allied Shinobi Forces
 while under the effect of his former colleague
Zabuza Momochi
's
Hiding in Mist Technique
, showing that he, despite his bulk, had a high level of stealth. Fuguki could also harden his hair to shoot a multitude of
senbon-like hair
 or extend it to create
spear-like hair
 to pierce multiple opponents simultaneously.
 With his great sword Samehada, which was noted to be the most frightening of the seven blades, Fuguki could absorb chakra from his opponents. He likely had large chakra reserves in order to satisfy Samehada.

Part II

Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation

Main article:
Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation






Fuguki summoned alongside the other swordsmen during the Fourth Shinobi World War.



Amidst the battle with the
Third Division
, the
reincarnation
 previous generation of the Seven Ninja Swordsmen of the Mist are
summoned
 by
Pakura
 and
Gari
, under
Kabuto Yakushi
's instruction, with the intention of overwhelming the opposition. Amongst their number is Fuguki, who after being futilely bombarded by various techniques, is unable to retrieve his former sword from
Mangetsu Hōzuki
 as it was in the possession of
another
. Entering the fray whilst concealed by a
thick mist
, Fuguki begins a
silent
 massacre regardless, using his hair to launch barrages of
needles
 to kill his adversaries instead.






Fuguki being sealed away.



With Zabuza's defeat, the mist clears, and he seemingly retreats. The next day, he is seen battling the Third Division once again. Fuguki is ultimately incapacitated when
Kakashi Hatake
 manages to slice through his torso with the lightning-infused
Kubikiribōchō
, providing an opportunity for
Sai
 to complete his
sealing
 before his body heals.
 In the anime, Kakashi didn't infuse lightning into the Kubikiribōchō.

Fourth Shinobi World War: Climax

Main article:
Fourth Shinobi World War: Climax

Later, with the release of the Impure World Reincarnation technique, Fuguki's soul was presumably returned to the
afterlife
 along with the others.

In Other Media

Video Games

Fuguki Suikazan is a playable character in the following video games:

Game name
Japanese release
English release
Naruto Mobile
2016
2016
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Blazing
14 July 2016
24 August 2016
Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Online
14 April 2013
20 July 2016

Trivia

"Fuguki" (
河豚鬼
) literally means "
pufferfish
 demon" — the fish after which he was most likely inspired. While "Suikazan" (
西瓜山
) means "watermelon pile"; like all members of the Seven Ninja Swordsmen, his surname is derived from a type of
produce
.

References