Gamaken
 (
ガマケン
), also referred to as just
Ken
 (
ケン
,
Ken
), is a giant toad that resides on
Mount Myōboku
.

Background

In the anime, Gamaken was summoned by Jiraiya to make an escape after he entered the
Nadeshiko Village
 to do "research" for his next novel.

Personality

Gamaken is very modest. He is constantly referring to how clumsy he is, and often seems nervous. While fighting the
Animal Path
's summons during Pain's invasion, he once again states how clumsy he is to
Gamabunta
. Despite this, he has shown no signs of being any more clumsy or "ungraceful" than other toads in the series, albeit he also says that he will always do his best. His nickname "Ken-san" (
ケンさん
) gives him a sense of reliability like that of someone who will definitely be there for a timely rescue when in dire straits.

Appearance






Gamaken's full appearance.



Gamaken is a giant magenta-coloured toad with black markings on his face, arms, and legs with horn like protrusions on his head. He is as big as
Gamabunta
, and towers over most buildings (except for the massive skyscrapers in
Amegakure
 which dwarfed even other summons), trees and large rock formations. He wears a black kimono with a white sash and mesh armour underneath. He keeps a
sakazuki-like
 shield wrapped around his back and his
sasumata
 in his hand.

Abilities

In spite of his lack of confidence in his abilities, Gamaken is actually a very powerful combatant. His fighting style revolved around armed melee combat with both a
sasumata
 and a sakazuki shield which he wields with extreme proficiency. His skill was shown both times he confronted Pain's summons as he was initially able to fend off many different summons while Jiraiya prepared to summon the
Two Great Sage Toads
 and then later able to deal a detrimental blow to Pain's
Giant Rhino
 when summoned to defend Konoha.

In the anime he can also cause explosions with his sasumata, adding an even more deadly surprise to his attacks. He is also very agile as he evaded many attacks while fighting in an industrialised city. He uses his shield both defensively, to guard against attacks as well as like a flail and even for other supplementary purposes. He has great endurance and commitment as he had taken many bite wounds from Pain's
dog
 summon but nevertheless, still continued to fight.

Part II

Tale of Jiraiya the Gallant

Main article:
Tale of Jiraiya the Gallant






Gamaken taking on Pain's summon.



He was first summoned by Jiraiya when he was facing the
Akatsuki
 leader
Pain
 and decided to use the
Sage Mode
. In order to use Sage Mode, however,  it would take him some time to prepare it, and he could not afford to take the risk of leaving himself unprotected, so he summoned Gamaken.

During the time it took for Jiraiya to prepare the technique, Gamaken was forced to face off with a great variety of Pain's animal summons, and was kicked back and forth throughout the tower they were in until he was pushed into a sewer, after which Jiraiya then told him to return as he had finally finished the preparation for his technique.

Pain's Assault

Main article:
Pain's Assault






Gamaken fighting Pain's Giant Rhino.



Gamaken, along with
Gamabunta
 and
Gamahiro
, were later summoned to assist in Naruto's fight with Pain. He directly confronts the
Giant Rhino
 summoned by the
Animal Path
 attacking it with his sasumata, damaging it extensively. He later engages Pain's
Giant Multi-Headed Dog
 once again and warns Gamabunta and Gamahiro of its
ability
 albeit a little too late according to Gamabunta.

After Naruto incapacitates the Animal Path and its' summons disappear, the toads confront the
Preta
 and
Deva Path
 until the latter sends them flying beyond
Konoha
's borders with
Shinra Tensei
.

He was later seen passed out after crashing into some mountains.

In Other Media

Movies

Road to Ninja: Naruto the Movie

Main article:
Road to Ninja: Naruto the Movie

Trivia

Springtime of Youth

The
Springtime of Youth
 wiki
 has an article about this topic:

Gamaken

Though likely unofficial, it was revealed in the post-credits
omake
 of
Naruto Shippūden

episode 164
 that he operates a tavern in
Mount Myōboku
, where other giant toads like
Gamabunta
 and even
Katsuyu
 frequently hang out.

Gamaken's name comes from the well-known actor who is seen as somewhat of a rival to
Bunta Sugawara
:
Ken Takakura
.

Quotes

(To
Jiraiya
) "
Though I'm pretty weak, I'll try my best.
"

"
I guess I really am… just… clumsy.
"

References