Gen'yūmaru
 (
幻幽丸
) was a member of a clan imprisoned by
Orochimaru
, and his third host body.

Appearance

Gen'yūmaru had tousled neck-length white (green in the manga) hair, a strong chin, and dark purple eyes that changed to amber snake-like slits when Orochimaru
took control over his body
. He wore black wristbands with thick purple rope wrapped around his chest over a tan shirt, and black trousers.

Personality

He was described as a firm, and greatly self-confident individual. He was loyal and caring to his comrades, as when Orochimaru approached him with the intent to take over his body, Gen'yūmaru used the last wish offered to him to set them free.

Abilities

While the only fight Gen'yūmaru has been observed in was blurred, the fact that he was chosen as Orochimaru's host speaks highly of his potential abilities. Moreover, he is observed taking his opponent's head off, and sending it flying across the room, despite lacking any weapons.
 Additionally, even after his body was taken over, Gen'yūmaru's body continued to reject Orochimaru, forcing Orochimaru to attempt to switch bodies sooner.

Part I

Sasuke Recovery Mission






Gen'yūmaru, after being taken over by Orochimaru.



When Orochimaru's body was damaged beyond repair,
Kabuto Yakushi
 ordered Gen'yūmaru, along with many other prisoners, to fight to the death, under the premise the survivor would have a wish granted. After winning, Orochimaru's entrance to the arena gave Gen'yūmaru a frightening illusion of a giant snake who was about to devour him. Upon discovering his body will be Orochimaru's next vessel; Gen'yūmaru used his wish to request his clan members be set free. Resigned to his fate, Gen'yūmaru's body was taken over.

Part II

Itachi Pursuit Mission






Gen'yūmaru, among the other previous hosts, being held by Orochimaru's mental realm.



After three years, Gen'yūmaru's body begins to reject Orochimaru and he attempts to take
Sasuke Uchiha
's body. When Sasuke attacked a greatly weakened Orochimaru, the latter abandoned Gen'yūmaru's body.

Gen'yūmaru is later seen in Orochimaru's subconscious along with his other former host bodies' souls.

In Other Media

Movies

Naruto Shippūden the Movie: Bonds

Gen'yūmaru's body is failing Orochimaru, causing him to be bedridden. In the hopes of extending his host's vitality before he could transfer, Orochimaru ordered Sasuke to bring a man named
Shinnō
 to Otogakure, who knows many
Regeneration Techniques
 that may help. In the end, Sasuke failed to bring Shinnō in person, but a scroll that contains the necessary information to extend Gen'yūmaru's lifespan.

Trivia

Gen'yū (
幻幽
) literally means "confined to an illusion". When written as 原由, it means "reason".

Guren
 is suggested to have known Gen'yūmaru, as she is informed that he was selected as the host body when she was too late to receive the same "privilege".

Gen'yūmaru is seen during Orochimaru's battle with
Team Yamato
, when Orochimaru's face is struck by
Naruto
 and Orochimaru's
face skin
 is temporarily torn.

References