This article uses
Creative Commons licensed
 content from
revision 172329711
 of
Wikipedia
's
Naruto ninja ranks
 article.

The list of authors can be seen in the
page history
 there.

See also:
Ninja Ranks





Konoha genin.



Genin
 (
下忍
,
literally meaning:
 low ninja,
meaning (Viz):
 junior ninja) are the lowest level of ninja and also the ones that display the most difference in power. When they become genin, ninja start to do their bit for their village's economy – being sent on missions that the village gets paid for. They are typically sent either on
D-rank
 missions, which are almost entirely risk-free jobs of manual labour, or, rarely, on
C-rank
 missions, which are a cut above that and begin to verge on real "ninja" work that have a very low possibility of risk to the ninja involved. When
Konohagakure
 was short-handed on upper-level ninja because of the
invasion
, the village had to occasionally send genin on higher-ranked missions.

Genin are put in four-man cells, or squad, consisting of three genin and a
jōnin
-sensei, in order to learn teamwork and experience true ninja life under the supervision and protection of an elite
shinobi
. The make-up of these teams is based on the individual skills of the genin, so that there will be a balance between the teams. For instance,
Naruto Uzumaki
, who passed with the lowest grades, was put in a team with
Sasuke Uchiha
 and
Sakura Haruno
, who passed with the highest grades and highest written exam scores, respectively. Due to the fact that genin are the lowest level ninja, they are normally assigned D-rank or C-rank missions so as to gain experience before taking on harder missions or being promoted to the rank of
chūnin
, by successfully completing the
Chūnin Exams
, a set of difficult tasks made to test the skills of genin to see whether or not they are fit to become chūnin.

Trivia

A shinobi's rank doesn't necessarily reflect their abilities, as such, Naruto despite being a genin, was selected to become a
kage
. He admitted to
Team 5
 that he was still a genin at the time of his selection to become
Hokage
 due to circumstances prevented him from taking the
Chūnin Exams
 beyond the first and only one he ever took.

Similarly,
Kosuke Maruboshi
, who is called the Eternal Genin (
万年下忍
,
Mannen Genin
) has the skills of a jōnin-level shinobi, but is officially a genin — a rank he had consciously decided to remain at, due to personal reasons. He shares the epithet with
Might Duy
, who in his twenty years as a genin mastered the
Eight Gates
.

See Also

List of genin