"
Genin, Assemble!
" (
集まれ、下忍!!
,
Atsumare, Genin!!
) is episode 130 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

In the morning,
Boruto
 complains about having ramen for breakfast.
Naruto
 says it's a different flavour from the ones they had the previous night. Boruto decides to switch it up and uses some ingredients from Naruto's fridge to make the ramen spicier, while
Sasuke
 watches them from afar. As Naruto shows Boruto around the village, Boruto asks Naruto to introduce him to his team-mates in hopes of meeting a young Sasuke. Naruto says it's impossible, talking around the fact he deserted.
Konohamaru
 arrives, wanting to show Naruto the progress of his
Sexy Technique
. Naruto is unimpressed and shows his Sexy Technique instead, and mentions Boruto's is also better than Konohamaru's. Before Boruto can show it,
Sakura
 arrives and punches Naruto over the jutsu, scaring Konohamaru off.
Hinata
 intervenes on Naruto's behalf, and Boruto finds his parents' interactions embarrassing, but becomes interested when
Neji
 arrives.
Rock Lee
 also shows up, and Boruto is startled by how much looks like
his son
. Neji says
Tsunade
 gave him orders to gather Naruto and all available genin. As Boruto is under his supervision, he has to accompany Naruto to the meeting.
 Naruto bumps into another shinobi, and Boruto begins talking about Thunder Trains. As they walk away, the shinobi he bumped into,
Denki's father
, muses on the idea. Boruto asks Naruto about the fact that Tsunade's face isn't on the
Hokage Rock
. Naruto explains she took over recently, so it has yet to be carved, and adds his face will be added when he's
Hokage
. Boruto takes note of how Naruto was serious was about his goal about at such a young age. The genin gather at a bathhouse, where
Shikamaru
 explains they have to clean it because of something pertaining an acquaintance of Tsunade's. Boruto notices that the Ino-Shika-Chō aren't much different from their future selves. Knowing this is because of
Jiraiya
's peeping, Naruto wants to get the cleaning done immediately. Sakura and
Ino
 are surprised when Hinata talks to Boruto without a trace of nervousness. When the boys consider investigating what the bathhouse owner would have over Tsunade to make her order them to clean it, Naruto tries to focus on getting the job done, which Shikamaru finds unusual. He creates
shadow clones
 to speed things up, and Boruto is impressed that Naruto could already make more clones than him. Not wanting to be outdone,
Kiba
 and
Akamaru
 also begin using jutsu to get the job done, and end up destroying Naruto's clones in the excessive foam he creates before crashing into each other. Lee also overdoes it, and Boruto and Naruto end up spraying water on each other.
Chōji
 slips and knocks them over. An employee comes to see what the noise is about, and recognises Naruto from the day before, exposing him. At the end of the day, the genin complain about having to deal with problems caused by Naruto, who stresses it was Jiraiya's fault.
Shino
 compliments Boruto's moves, but finds flaws in it, unaware that he will be the one to train Boruto. The genin needle Naruto about Boruto being able to surpass him, and suggest he become a shinobi. When Boruto questions their need for personnel, they mention the recent desertion. Naruto and Sakura go silent, so the others change the subject. At night, Boruto meets with Sasuke, who reports not having sensed
Urashiki
, and asks about
Karasuki
. Boruto reports no change, and asks about Sasuke at that time, having put together he's the deserter. He asks Sasuke if he can't say anything. Sasuke is adamant they should only protect Naruto from Urashiki. The next day, Naruto takes Boruto to the training grounds, intending to meet Jiraiya. Sasuke, who rejoined the group, is chewed out by Naruto for not being around. Urashiki appears before Naruto, Boruto, and Sasuke, annoyed at how his plans have gone awry.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Sasuke Uchiha
Noriaki Sugiyama
杉山 紀彰
Sugiyama Noriaki
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Konohamaru
Ikue Otani
大谷 育江
Ōtani Ikue
Urashiki Ōtsutsuki
Kazuya Nakai
中井 和哉
Nakai Kazuya
Sakura Haruno
Chie Nakamura
中村 千絵
Nakamura Chie
Hinata Hyūga
Nana Mizuki
水樹 奈々
Mizuki Nana
Kiba Inuzuka
Kosuke Toriumi
鳥海 浩輔
Toriumi Kōsuke
Shino Aburame
Shinji Kawada
川田 紳司
Kawada Shinji
Neji Hyūga
Koichi Tochika
遠近 孝一
Tōchika Kōichi
Rock Lee
Yoichi Masukawa
増川 洋一
Masukawa Yōichi
Shikamaru Nara
Shotaro Morikubo
森久保 祥太郎
Morikubo Shōtarō
Chōji Akimichi
Kentaro Ito
伊藤 健太郎
Itō Kentarō
Ino Yamanaka
Ryoka Yuzuki
柚木 涼香
Yuzuki Ryōka
Ereki Kaminarimon
Jun Miyamoto
宮本 淳
Miyamoto Jun
Ereki's superior
Yo Tokinaga
時永 洋
Tokinaga Yō
Bathhouse employee
Hirokazu Sekido
関戸 博一
Sekido Hirokazu