This article is about the genjutsu. For the dōjutsu, see
Sharingan
.

Genjutsu: Sharingan
 broadly refers to a range of
genjutsu
 performed with the
Sharingan
. It has also been shown to be performed through the Sharingan's higher evolutions: the
Mangekyō Sharingan
 and the
Rinnegan
.

Usage






The technique utilised through the Rinnegan.



By establishing eye contact with a target, the Sharingan user traps them within a genjutsu which can be exploited for one of various purposes, such as: causing instantaneous — but temporary — loss of consciousness or paralysis in the target,
 forceful extraction of information,
 relaying memories,
 erasing memories,
 removing genjutsu placed on the target by others,
 and controlling a target's actions.

Members of the
Uchiha clan
 are particularly famous for using their Sharingan to control the
Nine-Tails
, so much so that
Konoha
 quickly came to suspect Uchiha involvement in the
Nine-Tailed Demon Fox's Attack
.

Sasuke Uchiha
 is noted to be able to use the technique through his Rinnegan, to trap all the
tailed beasts
 in a genjutsu with a mere glance.

The illusions created by Genjutsu: Sharingan do not appear to have any trademark form, appearing vastly different between the same functions and even the same users. For example, Sasuke typically uses it to render targets unconscious, yet on the first occasion the target's body is pierced with large feathers,
 on another, the target is grasped and overwhelmed by a shadowy figure,
 and on the third the target experiences Sasuke personally stabbing them.

Trivia

Sasuke
 and
Itachi
 Uchiha
 have both been shown activating their Mangekyō Sharingan to cast genjutsu despite already having their regular Sharingan activated, implying that this technique is enhanced in some way by the evolved dōjutsu, or that there is a similar technique utilised only by the Mangekyō Sharingan.

A shadowy version of Sasuke's humanoid
Susanoo
 first appears in a genjutsu he creates,
 only making a formal début several chapters later.

By making eye contact with a
jinchūriki
,
Obito
 could use this technique to control the tailed beast sealed inside them, while its host remained unaffected.

Despite genjutsu working by altering the chakra flow of a target's cerebral nervous system, this technique affected
Mecha-Naruto
 who doesn't have a brain.

Madara is shown having to deactivate his Rinnegan to his Mangekyō Sharingan to perform this technique.
 However, this wasn't required in Sasuke's usage.

References