An example of genjutsu being used.



Genjutsu
 (
幻術
,
literally meaning:
 Illusionary Techniques) is one of the main
jutsu
 categories which uses
chakra
. Unlike
ninjutsu
, the effects of genjutsu are not real, being only sensory illusions experienced by those who fall victim to it. According to the
Second Mizukage
, genjutsu falls under the broad category of
Yin Release
.

Overview

To perform a genjutsu ninja pour chakra into their target,
 which can be done through various means such as eye contact,
 sound,
 or even using a finger as a medium.
 A genjutsu is created when a ninja controls the chakra flow through their targets cranial nerves, thereby affecting their five senses;
 this is frequently used to create false images and/or trick the body into believing it has experienced physical sensations such as pain. It is further explained in the anime that, because genjutsu affects activity throughout the
prosencephalon structure
 of the brain, humans, dogs and other species of mammal are therefore all affected by genjutsu; however, the
kikaichū
, like all insects, lack such a structure to their brains, and so do not even notice it: as
Shino Aburame
 put it, insects are ruled almost solely by their senses alone, which makes them immune to most genjutsu, with exception of unique genjutsu such as Tsukuyomi,
 and gives the
Aburame clan
 an ability to detect it, even when heightened senses become susceptible.

Genjutsu can also be used to manipulate others - similar to brainwashing - by feeding the victim illusive suggestions. Methods include integration with
nature transformation
, as shown with
Water
 and
Lightning Release
, and in the anime, ingesting
special pills
 that activate when the target sleeps.
 Audible genjutsu is deemed the most dangerous because the user can trap victims from long distances.
 Genjutsu can also be placed into the environment for it to appear different. This use of genjutsu is useful to turn the environment to their advantage, such as masking the entrance to a hideout,
 allowing a ninja to hide in it better.

Despite its usefulness, genjutsu is rarely employed, most shinobi preferring the real, tangible effects of ninjutsu and
taijutsu
 over the imagined effects of genjutsu which hold little influence over the physical world. The difficulty of performing genjutsu in the first place presents an additional barrier to its use: genjutsu require precise chakra control in order to manipulate the target's senses and advanced intelligence to make the illusion convincing,
 prerequisites that even someone as skilled as
Jiraiya
 lacks.
 Some, however, are able to specialise in genjutsu, with
Kurenai Yūhi
 being regarded as one of
Konoha
's experts in the field and members of the
Uchiha clan
 being particularly feared because of their
Sharingan
's
generic genjutsu
. According to
Hagoromo
, the
Byakugan
 can also be used to extend the range of genjutsu.

Those under the influence of genjutsu will either appear to be unconscious or continue to move around under the pretence of the genjutsu. The former may be used to prevent or immediately end confrontations by trapping a target within an imagined scenario, leaving them physically vulnerable but requiring further skill and effort on the part of the genjutsu user to establish and maintain. The latter is very effective in extended battle as a genjutsu user can make themselves appear to be somewhere else and attack the victim from behind or change the environment to make the victim see a flat plain where there is a steep cliff. Alternatively, a genjutsu user can create relatively small differences in the environment, which is more effective for intel gathering. For example, Itachi Uchiha was known to cast a genjutsu upon meeting someone, and that person's reaction to Itachi's image in the genjutsu would help him understand them better while keeping himself safe.

Countering

There are several options to combat genjutsu:

A victim's chakra flow, if disrupted enough, can break the caster's influence. This "Genjutsu Dissipation" (
幻術解
,
Genjutsu Kai
,
literally meaning:
 Illusion Technique Dissipation) or "Genjutsu Reversal" (
幻術返し
,
Genjutsu Gaeshi
,
literally meaning:
 Illusion Technique Reversal)
 can be done by the victim themselves, (assuming they realise they're under a genjutsu's influence) or an ally who emits chakra into them.
 This countermeasure, used against
Sharingan
, was invented by
Sunagakure
 during a Shinobi World War.

Jinchūriki
 who have formed a good relationship with their
tailed beast
 prefer the latter method whenever they need it.

Pain that is not caused by the genjutsu can bring victims back to their senses.

If a caster's vision is obstructed, such as by the
Hiding in Mist Technique
, that at least prevents the use of ocular genjutsu.

Powerful
Wind Release
 techniques are noted to be the natural enemy of sound-based genjutsu, as they can blow away the soundwaves.

Possessing a Sharingan renders one largely invulnerable to genjutsu as their acute vision allows them to recognise its flaws and influence. They can also free others from genjutsu by inserting themselves into the opponent's illusion and release it.

Deidara
 is somehow able to condition his left eye to break genjutsu.

In the anime,
kikaichū
 are impervious to genjutsu because their brain structures aren't sophisticated enough, allowing members of the
Aburame clan
 a method to identify and counter genjutsu.
 This is contradicted in the novels, in which
Itachi Uchiha
 was able to affect the
Kochū
 with
Tsukuyomi
.

In the anime, strong smells, such as those from
Chilli Pepper Bombs
, can counteract genjutsu.

In the anime,
Kabuto Yakushi
 attempted to use his
own genjutsu
 on himself in order to override
the one

Itachi Uchiha
 placed on him, though due to the complex nature, it failed.

See Also

List of genjutsu

Trivia

Izanagi
 has the opposite effects to normal genjutsu, changing reality to illusion and vice versa.

Obito Uchiha
 had been able to completely control
Yagura Karatachi
 with a genjutsu, despite the latter being a perfect jinchūriki.

In the anime, genjutsu even works on
Mecha-Naruto
, corrupting its internal system.

Because genjutsu are not real, they are not supposed to be able to kill victims. However, there are exceptions:

Izumi Uchiha
 is killed with
Tsukuyomi
 in
Itachi Shinden: Book of Dark Night
.

In the anime, due to the
Kurama

Clan's

kekkei genkai
, certain members can use their exceptional talent for genjutsu to make the brain to believe the illusions are physically real, which can cause the victim to be potentially killed.

In the anime,
Kurobane
 is able to forcibly extract water from living beings through
Ninja Art: Infinite Sea Watchtower
 to produce the genjutsu, resulting in death by dehydration.

When
Ao
 dispelled the genjutsu that
Obito Uchiha
 placed on
Yagura Karatachi
, the after effects ended up killing the latter.

Itachi claimed that his Tsukuyomi can only be broken by a Sharingan user who shares the same blood with him.

Zansūru
 is immune to ocular genjutsu due to his left eye being a prosthetic, although this does not explain how his right eye is not affected.

References