The
Gentle Fist
 (
柔拳
,
Jūken
) is a form of hand-to-hand combat used by members of the
Hyūga clan
. It inflicts internal damage through attacking the body's
Chakra Pathway System
, subsequently injuring organs which are closely intertwined with the area of the network which has been struck. To do this, the user surgically injects a certain amount of their own
chakra
 into the opponent's chakra pathway system, causing damage to surrounding organs due to their proximity to the chakra circulatory system. Even the slightest tap can cause severe internal damage, hence the name "gentle" fist.

By employing the use of the
Byakugan
, an experienced user
 can target the
tenketsu
, thus enhancing the havoc and control a Gentle Fist practitioner can impose upon an opponent's chakra network. These 361 nodes are key gate-keeping interceptions in the chakra circulatory network, thus forcibly opening or sealing them in whatever manner the Gentle Fist user sees fit, is a powerful tactical option to have. The affected person's chakra flow can either be increased or disrupted completely, preventing them from using techniques as seen in
Neji
's fight with
Hinata
 during the
Chūnin Exams
, rendering her own Gentle Fist manoeuvres ineffective.

Neji Hyūga noted that any chakra-based substance can be destroyed by this technique. As seen in his fight with
Kidōmaru
, it is done by leaking chakra from the chakra openings in one's hands and moulding it into a needle-like shape to slice through the chakra.
 In the novel, it was shown that one can even use the Gentle Fist to counter enemy technique, carefully cutting an attack two so that it passes by harmlessly.
 In contrast, Kidōmaru managed to devise a
method
 that prevented the chakra from being injected into the body, thus negating the main impact of the Gentle Fist through physical contact. Because Gentle Fist is mostly taijutsu, some believed users can only emit chakra from their hands due to the hands being the most mobile limbs on the body. However, users can emit chakra from any tenketsu, making binding them with chakra-based substance impossible.

Being a close-quarter combat style, Gentle Fist practitioners have a disadvantage against long-range fighters, as Kidōmaru took full advantage of his distance weaponry to overwhelm Neji.

Because the chakra pathway system is invisible to the naked eye, the Byakugan is required for most techniques of this style. Since the Byakugan is unique to the Hyūga clan, it has become their
signature style
 of combat. The ability to inflict severe internal trauma with minimal external force, combined with chakra network manipulation, makes the Gentle Fist the most reputable and fearsome taijutsu style known in all of
Konohagakure
.
 In contrast to this, the technique can also be used for supplementary purposes displayed when
Hinata
 used the technique to fix
Naruto Uzumaki
's dislocated shoulder joint during the
Fourth Shinobi World War
.

Due to their possession of the Byakugan, the
Ōtsutsuki clan
 also practices this taijutsu form, though far more aggressive than what the Hyūga clan practices.
Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki
 demonstrated his while fighting Naruto Uzumaki, targeting Naruto's tenketsu and internal organs to try to incapacitate him.

Trivia

This fighting style is based off the real-life Chinese martial arts of
Baguazhang
 (known as "Hakkeshō" in Japan), which is made up of circular movements,
Wing Chun
, which is precise and invasive with strong emphasis in hand strikes, plus
Tai Chi
, which is fluid and seamless in its maneuvers. This allows the practitioner a wider range of motion and full use of momentum, without giving his or her opponent much of a chance for a direct strike.

Techniques from this line have also been called "Gentle Fist Art" (
柔拳法
,
Jūkenhō/Jūkenpō
) or "Gentle Step" (
柔歩
,
Jūho
). Kenpō is also a popular Japanese term for Chinese martial arts.

Although the supposed reading of "Gentle Fist Art" (
柔拳法
) is "Jūkenpō" due to constant-conversion, in the name of this technique according to furigana it is "Jūkenhō".

This fighting style might have also been based on
Touch of Death
, in which moves seemingly less lethal can be made lethal by striking certain pressure points on the body, a reference to how this technique targets the
Chakra Pathway System
 and tenketsu of an individual to explosively increase the damage done.

Sasuke Uchiha
 imitates this style in
Naruto: Shinobi Collection Shippū Ranbu
.

In
Boruto
 Novel 2, it’s stated the Hyuga use a unique Form called Zanshin ( 残心), which means remaining mind. Zanshin is used in Japanese martial arts as a state of awareness and of a relaxed alertness, Zanshin also refers specifically to the body's posture after a technique is executed.

See Also

Chakra Scalpel

References