This
Giant Clam
 (
蜃
,
Ōhamaguri
) was the personal summon of the
Second Mizukage
.

Personality

Unlike other summons, this clam seems to lack its own personality and is completely loyal to its summoner regardless of the intention, even if it means fighting Kirigakure shinobi.

Appearance

Aside from its massive size, it resembled an ordinary clam. Several prominent dark lines encircle both the upper and lower portions of its shell, while the
Kirigakure
 symbol is inscribed upon its top.

Abilities

The creature is capable of producing a mist with which its summoner can create a
deceptive mirage
 that completely rendered observers unable to accurately locate the position of itself or its summoner, after firstly opening its shell and exuding a mist from its
siphons
 throughout the duration of the technique. Its shell was very sturdy, being able to resist Ōnoki's
initial attack
. This creature also seems to have an extraordinarily long life span as it was used by Gengetsu when he was alive and survived until the Fourth Shinobi World War.

Part II

Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation

Main article:
Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation






Giant Clam creating the mirage.



During the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, after the Second Mizukage was
reincarnated
 by
Kabuto Yakushi
 to fight for
Akatsuki
, it was summoned to the battlefield in a confrontation against the shinobi of the
Fourth Division
. As the clam opened its shell, it envelops the area in a
mirage
 that rendered all the attacks the shinobi dealt ineffective, as they remain unable to locate the actual position of either the creature or the Mizukage. Despite the Mizukage's advice to attack the clam standing directly behind him, their attempts continue to fail, resulting in utter confusion amongst the shinobi.






The clam is destroyed.



After
Gaara
 and
Ōnoki
 arrived, the real clam was located through Gaara's
Concealed Sand Picture Cat
 technique. Ōnoki initially tried to attack the clam with his
Dust Release
 but is unsuccessful because of his dwindling chakra reserves. The clam is then attacked by Ōnoki's
Earth Release: Fist Rock Technique
 which did little to no damage to it until he uses the
Earth Release: Ultra-Added-Weight Rock Technique
 to destroy it. Due to this, the mirage disappears.

Trivia

Although simply called "giant clam", the kanji is actually the name for a
mythical giant clam
 and is usually pronounced as "shin" in Japanese ("shèn" or "chèn" in Chinese). This "shin" is actually a kind of aquatic, shape-shifting dragon in the form a giant clam. It is said to be able to cause mirages and
Fata Morganas
. In fact, its name has become almost synonymous with "mirage": in Japanese, the word for "mirage" is 蜃気楼 (
shinkirō
,
literally meaning:
 shin breath tower).

This and other references to mirages relating to the giant clam are a further allusion to the Second Mizukage's use of
genjutsu
.

The giant clam adds to the list of summons who are seemingly allied to a single ninja village given the Kirigakure symbol on its shell.

References