Ginkaku
 (
銀角
) was one of
Kumogakure
's infamous
Gold and Silver Brothers
 alongside
Kinkaku
, who were the most notorious criminals in the history of their village.

Background






Ginkaku and Kinkaku vs. Kurama.



During the
First Raikage
's reign, the Gold and Silver Brothers were part of a team that was assigned to capture the
Nine-Tailed Demon Fox
, but the two were swallowed during the confrontation.
 However, they survived by eating the flesh of the beast, and thrashed inside the tailed beast's stomach for two weeks, eventually forcing the Nine-Tails to regurgitate them. Upon their escape, they both came out looking like
miniature versions
 of the beast, due to having acquired a portion of the fox's chakra.
 During a peace treaty ceremony between
Konohagakure
's
Second Hokage
 and Kumogakure's
Second Raikage
, the two brothers staged a coup d'état that left the Hokage on the brink of death.
 At some point, he met
Kakuzu
, and he was still alive during the time of
Third Raikage
.

Personality

Ginkaku believes that a shinobi of Kumogakure must be prepared to sacrifice their comrades if it means to accomplish a goal, and he praised
Darui
 for attacking without concerning himself with the hostage he had taken.
 He also believes that words are potent weapons in battle, and is considered a disgrace to Kumogakure due to his indiscriminate underhanded nature and use of deceit, and betrayal indiscriminately in battle and will even attack their own comrades.
 Ginkaku cared deeply for his brother, whose name was his most said word. Before being sealed into the Benihisago, he pleaded for his brother to help him.

Appearance

Ginkaku, like his brother, was a relatively burly shinobi, albeit smaller than his sibling. He had light-coloured eyes with dark-coloured sclera,
 grey-toned skin (depicted as fair-coloured in the anime),
 as well as long, silver hair cover with prominent dark tips, arranged in a style reminiscent of a Native American headdress. These features are accentuated by the presence of two distinctive horns on his head as well as a light-coloured rectangular marking on his nose. He also had the same characteristic whisker-like marks on his face as
Naruto Uzumaki
.

His typical attire was comprised of a standard Kumogakure
flak jacket
 that is black on the edges, worn over a purple, high-collared, sleeveless uniform, a purple forehead protector, and a pair of simple wrist-guards. The kanji for "silver"' (
銀
,
gin
) was tattooed on his right shoulder. Along with this, he typically carried a
large gourd
 around his neck attached to a
thick rope
.

Abilities






Ginkaku and Kinkaku in their Version 1 forms.



The Gold and Silver Brothers were well-known for their prowess, causing a shinobi to tremble in fear when he saw them, and nearly led the
Fourth Raikage
 to disregard his duties as leader of the
Allied Shinobi Forces
 in order to personally confront the pair. Alongside his brother, he appeared to be able to fully demonstrate the power of the
Treasured Tools of the Sage of Six Paths
, which is said to surpass the
Five Kage
. By using that power in conjunction with the
Nine Tails
 chakra they brought
Tobirama Senju
 and the
Second Raikage
 to the brink of death in an ambush.
 Being descendants of the
Sage of Six Paths
,
 it was believed this allowed them to survive eating
Tailed Beast
 flesh. From doing this, Ginkaku gained access to the Nine-Tails chakra, resulting in him being able to enter both
version 1 and 2 forms
.

Treasured Tools






Ginkaku wielding the Shichiseiken and Benihisago.



The brothers wielded the five
Treasured Tools of the Sage of Six Paths
, all of which cost a large amount of chakra, enough to kill normal humans before they can utilise the tools properly. Due to the incredible feat of being able to wield the treasured because of their own strong chakra, the brothers were considered
weapon specialist
. By combining the
Benihisago
,
Kōkinjō
 and
Shichiseiken
, they can capture their opponent's
word soul
 (
言霊
,
kotodama
) and body, sealing them away. The
Bashōsen
 allows them to create any of the
five basic elements
. While using the Shichiseiken, Ginkaku displayed skill in
kenjutsu
, being able to momentarily clash with Darui, a specialist, as well as chop straight through a White Zetsu with ease, while using only one hand for both feats.

Part II

Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation

Main article:
Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation

In preparation for the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, Ginkaku is
reincarnated
 by
Kabuto Yakushi
 to fight against the
Allied Shinobi Forces
. Emerging from the sea near the
Land of Lightning
's coast, alongside his brother and among the
White Zetsu Army
, the two engage the opposing
First Division
. Confronted by
Darui
, he remarks that it was pathetic that they of all people would be used in the
Second Hokage
's technique, considering they defeated him.






Ginkaku absorbing Atsui into the gourd.



Irritated by Darui's insolent tone, he retrieves the
Shichiseiken
 from Kinkaku and with the
Benihisago
 underarm, begins to battle the former. Switching opponents, Ginkaku is able to
sever
 and
confine

Samui
 and
Atsui
's word souls. After tossing the sword to his brother, Atsui is
tricked
 into uttering his most said word, allowing Ginkaku to seal him away. He then takes Samui hostage and tries to make them surrender, but struck by a
guided barrage
, she manages to escape. Hailing them both as true
Kumo
-nin, Ginkaku seals Samui despite her silence, before cursing Darui in his confusion.






Ginkaku being absorbed into the Benihisago by Darui.



Praising Darui for discerning that the curse will activate even if he remains silent, Ginkaku reiterates that deceit and betrayal were ideal tactics for shinobi, but when called a disgrace, he becomes enraged at the delluded "
pawn
" of the
Raikage
. However, just as Ginkaku was about to seal him, Darui's most said word changes whilst being absorbed, allowing him to escape unbeknown to the brothers. Knocked into Kinkaku from behind, Ginkaku touches the
Kōkinjō
, before being cursed by Darui after he commandeers the
other

tools
. Separated from one another, Ginkaku fearfully requests his brother's help, yet as "
Kinkaku
" (
キンカク
) was his most used word, he is instead sucked into the confines of the Benihisago.

By nightfall,
Tobi
 arrived at the battlefield and took both the Benihisago and
Kohaku no Jōhei
, each containing one of the brothers inside, intending to use their
Kurama
 chakra to help enact his
Eye of the Moon Plan
. During the fight between Tobi and Naruto, Tobi decided to move ahead with his plans and tossed the Benihisago with Ginkaku still inside the gourd into the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path.

In Other Media

Ginkaku appears as a boss in
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 3
.

Video Games

Ginkaku is a playable character in the following video games:

Game name
Japanese release
English release
Naruto Mobile
2016
2016
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Blazing
14 July 2016
24 August 2016
Naruto: Shinobi Collection
2014
Naruto: Shinobi Collection Shippū Ranbu
27 July 2015
Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Online
14 April 2013
20 July 2016

Trivia

"Ginkaku" (
銀角
) literally means "Silver Horn".

Ginkaku's most frequently spoken word is his brother's name, "
Kinkaku
" (
キンカク
).

Both Ginkaku and his brother are likely based on two characters from the Chinese classic "
Journey to the West
". In this story, Kinkaku and Ginkaku are two demon king brothers, known as the Great King Kinkaku (
金角大王
,
Kinkaku-daiō
) and the Great King Ginkaku (
銀角大王
,
Ginkaku-daiō
). The siblings possess five treasured tools; one of which, called the Crimson Gourd (
紅葫蘆
,
Benihisago
), had the ability to suck in their opponents, before melting them once they were trapped within. This item presumably served as the inspiration behind the distinctive gourd that Ginkaku is seen with in the
Naruto
 series
. Also, in the original tale, Ginkaku does meet the same end, where upon he calls for his brother's help before he is pulled inside the gourd.

When Ginkaku débuted in the
anime
, he was depicted without the plating on his nose seen in the manga.

Ginkaku and Kinkaku are also temples in Kyōto, Japan. The Temple of the Silver Pavilion is called Ginkaku and the Temple of the Gold Pavilion is called Kinkaku.

In
Naruto: Shippūden
 episode 269
, Ginkaku and his brother Kinkaku were both seen with whisker-like marks on their faces before they were even consumed by Kurama.

Quotes

(To
Darui
) "
Hey sometimes "speech is silver", right? A silver tongue can trick anyone! Right now your problem is
dead silence
."

(To Darui) "
Words are just another tool people use to trick one another with lies. In the shinobi world, deceit and betrayal are fantastic battle strategies… Words are just another ninja tool.
"

References