This article is about the tree.  For other uses, see
God Tree (disambiguation)
.





A God Tree.



A
God Tree
 (
神樹
,
Shinju
,
English TV:
 Divine Tree) is a type of gigantic tree which grows by absorbing blood soaked into the ground from countless battles over a millennia.
 God Trees are born from
Ten-Tails
 itself which acts as the Tree's
seedling
.
 In order for it to blossom from its seedling state into the tree, it must be fed the life of an
Ōtsutsuki
.
 The healthier and stronger the sacrifice is, the more powerful the Chakra Fruit it produces.
 A vessel of the Ōtsutsuki is also viable for sacrifice, though the biological data within the
Kāma
 must have extracted to at least a majority percentage for it to work, and if not complete, the tree's size would be affected negatively.
  Due to its massive size and the conditions under which it is grown, the God Tree is revered by some cultures; humans used to worship its God Tree as a "sacred pillar" that extended into the heavens and remained ambivalent to all conflict.

Background





Earth's God Tree.



In the anime, a God Tree seed landed on
Earth
 from a meteorite several millennia ago. It was believed that the God Tree nourished the land and helped it thrive, while in truth, the God Tree was slowly killing the land and its people, by draining
natural energy
 from them. It was believed that anyone who approached the tree was consumed by a demon spirit and died like a withered branch.





A chakra fruit.



Every thousand years, a God Tree produces a "
Chakra Fruit
" (
チャクラの実
,
Chakura no Mi
), which human legend holds are never to be touched.
 Members of the Ōtsutsuki clan travel through dimensions in search of God Trees so that they can harvest these fruits and gain their powerful
chakra
 for themselves, producing medicine that grants them their godlike power along with extended youth and longevity.
 Some Ōtsutsuki, such as
Momoshiki
 and
Kinshiki
, harvest the God Tree's fruit until it and its respective planet die, at which point they go looking for a new one.

Kaguya
, after consuming the fruit of Earth's God Tree, chose to settle on the planet and use the power she gained in order to single-handedly rule over the human populations.






Kaguya eats the Earth's chakra fruit.



As a measure to keep the peace, Kaguya enslaved parts of the human population with the
Infinite Tsukuyomi
 and
bound
 those affected to the God Tree, assimilating them with its life force and gradually turning them into
White Zetsu
 by draining them of everything that gave them their individuality, even their physical appearance.
 When Kaguya's sons,
Hagoromo
 and
Hamura
, were born with chakra of their own, she merged with the Earth's God Tree in order to take the chakra back, thus becoming a monster called the
Ten-Tails
.
 If all of the chakra in the world is united with the God Tree once more, it would be able to bear a new chakra fruit.

The Ten-Tails, in its God Tree form, possesses roots capable of extending to ensnare foes, including
tailed beasts
, to drain their chakra, rapidly transforming humans into mummified remains within moments.
 Its
jinchūriki
 can manipulate these roots into various shapes, such as enormous wooden dragons.
 Activation of the Infinite Tsukuyomi occurs when the tree's apex bud blossoms, revealing an eye within, the Rinne Sharingan.
 Reviving the Ten-Tails with only fragments of tailed beasts' chakra may delay the bud's blooming for up to fifteen minutes, a process that can be hastened by absorbing additional chakra.
 Victims
ensnared
 by the tree's roots and subjected to the Infinite Tsukuyomi gradually deteriorate over years,
 eventually morphing into White Zetsu, shadows of their former selves.

According to Amado, the Ōtsutsuki are the actual sources of the trees, seeding planets with juvenile Ten-Tails, which grow into the trees, sucking up the life of the planets. The resulting chakra fruit contains the energy and biological information of the planet, which the Ōtsutsuki use to update and evolve their species.






Victor's replica tree.



In the anime,
Victor
 was able to create an artificial tree using a sample of the remnants of Fourth Shinobi World War's God Tree, a cell of
Hashirama Senju
, and those who were implanted with the cell.
 Because of its artificial nature, Victor's God Tree was incomplete and unable to bear a chakra fruit, only consuming nearby chakra.
 The tree was
destroyed
 by
Orochimaru
.






Sentient God Trees.



After
Isshiki
's death,
Code
 was entrusted with a
Ten-Tails seedling
 belonging to the latter, which he hoped to cultivate into a God Tree. Code would later use his
Claw Mark
 on the Ten-Tails to create an army of humanoid soldiers named
Claw Grime
. Three years later, they begin to evolve into sentient, self-aware beings called
Human God Trees
 (
人神樹
,
Hitoshinju
), breaking free from Code and becoming independent. Although these sentient beings possesses their own personality and desires, their ultimate goal seems to be the creation of the chakra fruit, though the leader allegedly offered Code the fruit if he kills Boruto and Koji.

Trivia

The God Tree bears similarities to certain motifs that are present in different religions and mythologies throughout the world:

Its size is akin to the
world tree

Yggdrasil
 in Norse mythology. In addition, the
wooden dragon-like entities
 at the base of the God Tree may be a reference to
Nidhogg
, a dragon or serpent who eternally chews the roots of the world tree; It is said that should Nidhogg finally be free of its entrapment underneath Yggdrasil, its appearance into the world beyond its roots are said to herald the coming of
Ragnarök
, the end of the world and ultimate battle of the gods.

Its appearance on former battlefields and how it grows by feeding on the blood of humans is akin to
Jubokko
, a
yōkai
 tree in Japanese mythology.

Its bearing of the fruit that was deemed forbidden to consume is akin to the story of the
Tree of the knowledge of good and evil
 in
Abrahamic religions
, in which
Adam and Eve
, the first humans, ate the forbidden fruit despite being told otherwise. Ultimately, while becoming wiser, it lead to their downfall by incurring the wrath of God. For disobeying Him, He forever cursed the two and their descendants. Adam's eldest son,
Cain
, would later murder his younger brother, Abel, in anger and jealousy following God's rejection of his offering while accepting Abel's, similar to the struggle between the
two

sons
 of the
Sage of Six Paths
.

A similar motif appears in
Journey to the West
 (one of the inspirations for the
Naruto
 franchise), when the pilgrims cross paths with the
Immortal Zhenyuan
 and his special tree, the Ginsengfruit tree, which produces only 30 pieces of fruit every 9,000 years; the fruit is shaped like an infant less than three days old. A person who smells the fruit can extend his lifespan by 360 years, while a person who eats the fruit can live for another 47,000 years.  This served as one of the 81 (9x9) trials that the pilgrims had to endure in their quest to fetch Buddha's Great Vehicle Scriptures (
Mahayana
/
Mahayana sutras
).

During the
Fourth Shinobi World War
,
Obito Uchiha
 transforms the Ten-Tails into a giant tree as part of his
Eye of the Moon Plan
. The
fourth databook
 and the
Eight-Tails
 call this both the Ten-Tails' final form and the God Tree itself.

Just before
Madara Uchiha
 absorbed the Ten-Tails into himself, a voice spoke to him, willing him to "
Absorb me. The God Tree… the Ten-Tails. Absorb everything.
" (
「ワレヲトリコメ シンジュヲ… ジュウビヲ スベテヲトリコメ」
,
"Ware o torikome. Shinju o… Jūbi o. Subete o torikome."
).
 Interestingly, the voice uses
katakana
, a unique style of speaking only used by
Black Zetsu
, while referring to itself using 我 (
Ware
), an archaic personal pronoun. In
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 4
, the voice is Kaguya's.

In the anime, the God Tree is shown to have a will of its own and became the Ten-Tails to fight alongside Kaguya, foreshadowing the fact that the Ten-Tails and God Tree's are one in the same with the former being the God Tree's 'seed'.

The kanji 神樹 coincidentally denotes the tree genus
Ailanthus
, the name of which comes from the Ambonese word
ailanto
, which likely means "tree of the gods" or "tree of heaven".

References