Gold Dust
 (
砂金
,
Sakin
,
literally meaning:
 Sand Gold) is the name of the weapon used by the
Fourth Kazekage
.

Overview

Due to the
conductive
 properties of gold, an alternating magnetic field can induce a current in it, which generates its own magnetic field. Therefore small particles of it could be manipulated in a similar manner to the sand utilised by
Shukaku
's
jinchūriki
, through the Kazekage's
Magnet Release
 kekkei genkai. When he utilised this ability, dark rings appeared around his eyes that resembled the permanent ones around those of his youngest son,
Gaara
.

In sufficient quantities, this sand gold could be fashioned into a diverse range of forms, which the Fourth Kazekage employed to
assault opponents
 and
intercept hostile attacks
.
 By constructing more complex structures, he could use it to perform even more intricate tasks, such as observing an area from afar with the
Third Eye
.

In the past, this weapon was instrumental to the protection of
Sunagakure
 during the Fourth Kazekage's tenure, by allowing him to effectively subdue
Shukaku
 each time the beast went berserk. This was accomplished by layering his sand gold atop of the sand controlled by the beast. As gold is heavier than sand, it made it more difficult for the creature to manipulate, thus slowing if not stopping the sand's movement entirely.

When confronting the
Second Mizukage
, Gaara incorporated some of his father's gold dust into his own sand in order to both cool and weigh down the Mizukage's
exploding clone
, after the clone's own heat fused the gold onto its body.

Utilised Techniques

Magnet Release: Gold Dust Imperial Funeral

Air Gold Dust Protective Wall

Third Eye

Trivia

Gold in bulk size is not a ferromagnetic metal like iron, nickel or cobalt. Instead it exhibits
diamagnetism
, which is orders of magnitude weaker than
ferromagnetism
, and both are types of magnetism. However, nano-sized gold particles exhibit ferromagnetism.

Gold is approximately 7.3 times denser than
silica
, the main component of sand, and about 3.7 times denser than magnetite, the main component of
Iron Sand
.

The different magnetic behaviours allow gold dust, sand, and magnetite to be separated from one another.

When Sunagakure was facing dire economic strains, this gold dust was used as a valuable trade commodity of the village.

References