The
Gold and Silver Brothers
 (
金銀兄弟
,
Kingin Kyōdai
), also known as the "Two Lights" (
二つの光
,
Futatsu no Hikari
), were two infamous shinobi from
Kumogakure
, that were distantly related to the
Sage of Six Paths
.

Background






The brothers eating Kurama's flesh after being swallowed.



Years ago, before the
First Shinobi World War
, the Gold and Silver Brothers made names for themselves in their attempt to capture the Nine-Tailed Fox for their village. They were instead swallowed whole by the beast. The brothers survived inside
Kurama
 for two weeks by eating the beast's flesh; this would eventually lead to the fox regurgitating them. This left them with unusually large
chakra
-reserves and abilities similar to those of a
jinchūriki
.

With their new-found powers, the brothers assaulted the
Second Raikage
, during his peace pact with the Second Hokage
Tobirama Senju
, to stage a coup d'etat. Managing to bring the Second Hokage and the Second Raikage to the verge of death,
 the brothers are declared disgraces for their treacherous actions and deceptive natures. Despite this, they are still highly respected in Kumo for their strength and skill.
 At some point in their lifetime, they were alive during the reign of the
Third Raikage
.
 The brothers' fate after the ambush was never revealed, but they eventually died, taking with them four of the five treasures.






The brothers revived during the Fourth Shinobi World War.



During the Fourth Shinobi World War,
Kabuto Yakushi

reanimates
 the Gold and Silver brothers, and their presence alone almost provoked A into completely disregarding his duties as leader of the
Allied Shinobi Forces
 in order to personally confront the brothers on the battlefield as he informs the others how dangerous the two are.
 Soon after, the brothers confront
Darui
 of the
First Division
 along with
Samui
 and
Atsui
 before the brothers sealed them away in the
Benihisago
 despite Darui's attempt to save the former by severing Kinkaku and him and Ginkaku with his
Storm Release: Laser Circus
 attack. Darui manages to counter the brothers' method of entrapment and uses the
Shichiseiken
 to trap Ginkaku in the Benihisago. This act infuriates Kinkaku as he transforms into his
six-tailed, Version 2 form
.






The brothers chakra being used to revive the Ten-Tails.



With
Team Asuma
 summoned to his side with the
Kohaku no Jōhei
 as Ino uses her
Mind Body Switch Technique
 to take possession of Kinkaku's body to force him into activating the Kohaku no Jōhei to suck in Kinkaku along with the
Kōkinjō
. However, as the first day of the war comes to an end,
Tobi
 takes the Benihisago and the Kohaku no Jōhei intending to make use of the brothers' Nine-Tails chakra. The next day, Tobi tosses the Benihisago and the Kohaku no Jōhei into the
Demonic Statue of the Outer Path
 to summon an incomplete version of "
it
".

Appearance

The brothers share similar appearances to one another. They are both muscular in physique with Kinkaku being the larger of the two. Their hair is styled like headdresses — the colour of which reflect their names (gold and silver respectively). They also have what appeared to be horns and wore similar attires to one another. Each also had the first kanji of their name tattooed to their shoulder, and whisker-like marks on their faces.

Trivia

Both Kinkaku and Ginkaku are based on two characters from the Chinese classic
Journey to the West
. In this story, the siblings are two demon king brothers, known as the Great King Kinkaku (
金角大王
,
Kinkaku-daiō
) and the Great King Ginkaku (
銀角大王
,
Ginkaku-daiō
), who live in the Lotus Cave (
蓮華洞
,
Rengedō
) on Mount Heichō (
平頂山
,
Heichōzan
). They possess five treasured tools, called the Amber Purifying Pot (
琥珀の浄瓶
,
Kohaku no Jōhei
), the Seven Star Sword (
七星剣
,
Shichiseiken
), the Banana Palm Fan (
芭蕉扇
,
Bashōsen
), the Golden Canopy Rope (
幌金縄
,
Kōkinjō
) and the Crimson Gourd (
紅葫蘆
,
Benihisago
). Amongst these, the pot and the gourd are capable of sucking in their opponents and melting them, once they are trapped within. Ginkaku is also said to have a technique that allows him to move mountains.

The demon king brothers' mother and uncle also appeared in the novel. Their uncle, Hu A'qi was a fox that fought with a halberd and lived close to his nephews. Their mother was a nine-tailed fox in the disguise of an old woman who lived in the Dragon-suppressing Cave. The fact the demon king brothers' mother was a nine-tailed fox, is an allusion to how Kinkaku and Ginkaku possess Kurama's chakra after being trapped in its stomach.

There are slight differences between the Gold and Silver Brothers' appearance in the anime and the manga. On the cover of volume 56, the brothers have a white rectangular marking on their nose. In the anime, however, the white marking is simply an outline. The cover of
volume 56
 also depicts the brothers with a noticeably darker complexion while in the anime, they are fair-skinned.

References