The
Gozu Tennō
 is a
fūinjutsu
 developed by
Root
's
Tanuki Shigaraki
 under orders from
Danzō Shimura
.
Sasuke Uchiha
 remarked that it came close to replicating
Kaguya Ōtsutsuki
's secret techniques.

The seal is comprised of
Hashirama Senju
's cells and must be surgically implanted into a compatible vessel, a process which drains a great deal of the caster's vitality, shortening their lifespan; Tanuki died right after he cast it onto his daughter. The seal itself acts as a gateway to a
separate dimension
 that Tanuki called the underworld (
異界
,
ikai
), wherein dwells a legendary beast named
Nue
 that is born the moment the seal is completed.

The mark acts as a medium for
absorbed chakra
 to be transferred into the Nue, nourishing it, as well as a gate through which it can be summoned. It also allows the user to create snake-like creatures out of dark
chakra
, which can be used in battle or parasitically attached to individuals suffering from negative emotions to continually drain their chakra, further disturbing their mental state. As Nue is fed chakra, the seal's pattern spreads and the beast quickly grows into a gigantic monster, eventually becoming a living chakra bomb that can be summoned to a location and detonated, creating an explosion large enough to destroy an entire city.

The principal usage of the Gozu Tennō is to send the host into enemy territory to release Nue, who will rampage as much as possible before detonating to wipe out everything, including the host.

As the true source of power for this technique is negative emotions, if the vessel overcomes these emotions the seal will be destroyed. When
Sumire Kakei
 achieved this, a portion of the seal remained and migrated to her palm, allowing her to maintain her symbiotic bond with Nue.

Influence

The technique's name comes from
Gozu Tennō
, a Japanese deity of pestilence.

Trivia

The strategy of sending Gozu Tennō into enemy territory is similar to how
Kirigakure
 attempted to send
Rin Nohara
, whom they made into the
Jinchūriki
 of
Isobu
, into
Konohagakure
 to destroy it. Incidentally, both cases had Konoha as their targets.

References