"
Guardian of the Iron Wall
" (
鉄壁の番人
,
Teppeki no Bannin
) is episode 116 of the
Naruto: Shippūden
 anime.

Synopsis

Sasuke
 and
Suigetsu
 head towards the Southern Hideout, one of
Orochimaru
's bases, where the prisoners are being guarded by a warden named
Karin
. Sasuke tells Suigetsu that his plan is to recruit Karin for his
team
. Suigetsu asks why he is putting together a team and why he would want Karin on it, as he finds her unpleasant and difficult to deal with. Sasuke responds that he had been thinking of forming a team for quite some time now as it would help him further his goals, and tells Suigetsu that Karin has a special ability which makes her unique. At the hideout, Karin manages to
sense their chakra
 before the duo arrive.

Suigetsu uses his
Kubikiribōchō
 to break down the door of the hideout and the pair enter, walking by prisoners, who were discussing whether the rumors of Orochimaru's death were true. After seeing Sasuke walk inside without Orochimaru, they begin to believe in the validity of the rumors, although some refuse to believe it. Sasuke and Suigetsu run into Karin, and they decide to talk in a separate room. Karin refuses Sasuke's offer, claiming that her place is to be the warden of the prison and asks whether Sasuke had truly killed Orochimaru. Sasuke confirms her doubt, and Suigetsu states that word of Orochimaru's death should have already reached the prison and Sasuke reveals that he had noticed freshly dug graves outside as he was walking in; Suigetsu pieces together that Karin had a spy located in the cells and was killing off any prisoners who were discussing Orochimaru's fate. Sasuke then asks Suigetsu to free the prisoners; as Suigetsu leaves, Karin locks herself inside the room with Sasuke.

Suigetsu gets to the cells, where he promises to free all the prisoners so long as they spread the word that Sasuke took down Orochimaru and subsequently freed them, to which the prisoners hastily agree. Inside the room, Karin removes her glasses and changes her tone to a seductive voice, attempting to nuzzle next to Sasuke and agreeing to join his team. She recalls their first encounter, in which Orochimaru had tasked Sasuke to retrieve escaped prisoners and had ordered Karin to use her special chakra sensing ability in order to assist him. Karin had noticed that Sasuke had not killed anyone, and Sasuke had responded that there was only
one person
 whom he wanted to kill. Karin noticed Sasuke's
chakra
 at those words and was excited by it, and ended up distracted. When her distraction leads her to fall off a tree, Sasuke saved her and killed a prisoner who was attempting to use the chance to take out Karin.

As Sasuke tells Karin not to get too close to him, Suigetsu uses his
Water Release: Great Water Arm Technique
 along with his Kubikiribōchō to break down the door. Sasuke alerts Suigetsu that Karin had accepted his proposal, but with the arrival of Suigetsu, Karin puts her glasses back on and reverts to her old, cold tone, telling them that she had never agreed to do such a thing. However, with no prisoners to keep watch over and her growing attraction towards Sasuke, she tells them that she is headed in the same direction as they are and thus would be joining them for part of the way. The three then set off to recruit the final member of the team —
Jūgo
, who is shackled in the Northern Hideout.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Sasuke Uchiha
Noriaki Sugiyama
杉山 紀彰
Sugiyama Noriaki
Yuri Lowenthal
Suigetsu
Takashi Kondo
近藤 隆
Kondō Takashi
Grant George
Jūgo
Shuhei Sakaguchi
阪口 周平
Sakaguchi Shūhei
Travis Willingham
Karin
Kanako Tojo
東條 加那子
Tōjō Kanako
Ali Hillis
Fortress prisoners
Kanji Suzumori
Takafumi Kawakami
Tomoyoshi Fukazu
Kenichiro Matsuda
鈴森 勘司
川上 貴史
深津 智義
松田 健一郎
Suzumori Kanji
Kawakami Takafumi
Fukazu Tomoyoshi
Matsuda Ken'ichirō
Keith Silverstein
Dave Wittenberg
Patrick Seitz
Crispin Freeman
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Maile Flanagan
Kakashi Hatake
Kazuhiko Inoue
井上 和彦
Inoue Kazuhiko
Dave Wittenberg