This article is about the prison. For the movie, see
Naruto the Movie: Blood Prison
.





The Hōzuki Castle.



The
Hōzuki Castle
 (
鬼灯城
,
Hōzuki-jō
,
literally meaning:
 Demon Lantern Castle), also known as the
Blood Prison
 (
ブラッド・プリズン
,
Buraddo Purizun
), is a large castle that is controlled by
Kusagakure
 and serves as a criminal containment facility.

Overview

Prisoners interned at Hōzuki Castle are intended to remain there until they die or the
hidden village
 that sent them there officially requests their release. There are several death traps spread throughout the fortress to prevent escape and, in
Naruto the Movie: Blood Prison
, the castle is situated on a cliff surrounded by whirlpools, drowning any who may try to swim away. Actual security within the prison is seemingly poor: despite all prisoners being subject to
strip
 and
body cavity searches
,
Naruto Uzumaki
 is able to conceal
shuriken
 on himself and
Ryūzetsu
 is able to conceal the fact that she is a woman.

Because most of the prison's population are
shinobi
 or other individuals who can use
chakra
, neutralising them is very important and is the chief responsibility of Hōzuki Castle's master (
主
,
aruji
).
Mui
 uses
Fire Release: Heavenly Prison
 to seal prisoners' abilities and reduce their bodies to ash if they move too far away from him.
Kahyō
 uses
Ice Release: Earthen Consecutive Chains of Ice
 to force prisoners to dedicate all their chakra to keep themselves warm or risk freezing to death. Because Mui and Kahyō can activate their techniques remotely to kill prisoners, life within the prison is typically quiet and inmates try to avoid causing trouble.

Prisoners are let out from morning to sunset for daily exercise and meals, and at the end of the day they are instructed to return to their cells for sleep. The prison also contained a system of guards, who seemed to function more like orderlies, escorting prisoners around the prison, searching them, and making sure they were all in their cells at night. With Mui and later Kahyō's jutsu sealing the prisoner's chakra, the guards rarely ran into trouble. They did carry nightsticks, and used dogs to track and attack prisoners attempting to escape. It also contained a loudspeaker system for announcements to prisoners, as well as search lights and sirens that were activated during an attempted escape. On the infrequent situations where riots do occur, at least during Mui's tenure, the guards had proven themselves incompetent in restoring order when they had to request Mui to use his control over the Heavenly Prison to suppress them; this seems to have improved by the time
Muku
 took over, as there were more competent, if corrupt, officers like
Benga
.

Regulation 23 states that any attempt to escape the prison or to cause trouble result in three days in solitary confinement in the disciplinary cell. Clause 6 states that second time offenders get five days, third time is a week, and a fourth is permanent.

History

In
Naruto the Movie: Blood Prison
, Kusagakure originally built Hōzuki Castle in order to hide the
Box of Ultimate Bliss
; its function as a prison was the explanation given to the public. The Box is kept in a laboratory hidden deep underground, accessed through a stairway hidden behind a bookcase in the master's office. Prisoners are secretly used as test subjects by having their chakra sucked out in order to try and open the Box. Mui frames Naruto for several assassinations so that he is sent to Hōzuki Castle and the
Nine-Tails
' chakra can be used to open the Box and release his son,
Muku
. Despite the attempts of several spies hidden within the prison population to stop Mui, he is successful. However, Muku is corrupted by the Box's powers and serves as
Satori
's host. He is eventually defeated, but Mui dies and the castle burns down. The escaping prisoners are recaptured by the
Konoha 11
.

In
Kakashi Hiden
, Mui died several years earlier during a joint operation by
Konohagakure
 and
Kumogakure
. In the years since then the villages of the
Five Great Shinobi Countries
 have alternated security duties until a new master for Hōzuki Castle can be found. The
Ryūha Armament Alliance
 assaults the prison in an attempt to break out their leader,
Garyō
. Konoha thwarts their attempt, though cannot prevent several civilian casualties and severe damage to the prison's structure. Kahyō, the highest-ranking conspirator to survive the failed jailbreak, is offered a deal by the
Sixth Hokage
; in exchange for not being given the death penalty, she must serve as the master for Hōzuki Castle for the rest of her life. She accepts, the other
Kage
 approve her appointment, and as a result, the villages no longer need to provide guard duty.

In
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
,
Team 7
 was assigned an undercover mission at Hōzuki Castle, to protect the
Mujina Bandits
's former member
Kokuri
 from
Tsukiyo
, in exchange for information on their dealings and leadership.
 Later,
Shojoji
 kidnapped
the son
 of the
Land of Fire
's
daimyō
, and, as part of the ransom, demanded that
Ikkyū Madoka
 release all the prisoners held within the castle walls.

Trivia

The castle is surrounded by the
hōzuki
 plant, also known as Japanese lantern. In Japan, its seeds are used as part of the
Bon Festival
 as offerings to guide the souls of the deceased.

The sculpture behind the security desk is the
Ecstasy of Saint Theresa
 by Bernini, which illustrates a moment where divinity intrudes on an earthly body.

Despite being in Kusagakaure — which is in a landlocked country —
Naruto the Movie: Blood Prison
 depicts Hōzuki Castle as lying on a cliff, by the ocean.

The concept of the Hōzuki Castle's terrain is similar to
Alcatraz
, which is also situated near a cliff with a raging ocean beneath. Although Alcatraz is also on a island, and not just an outcrop of land.

In
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 4
, Hōzuki Castle and Kahyō taking over as its lord are mentioned in the
Shikamaru's Tale
 Adventure Mode DLC (which is set after the events of
Kakashi Hiden
). As a result of Kahyō becoming its new lord, it is revealed that rate of secondary offences within the prison had dropped significantly.

See Also

Konoha Strict Correctional Facility

References