Haido
 had led a group of medieval like
knights
 to achieve his dream of conquering the world (or in the warlord's own words, creating a utopia free of war).

Overview

Each of them have a piece of the
Stone of Gelel
 lodged in their chest, granting them an increase in stamina, physical powers, regenerative might, and
unique abilities
 for each user. Aside from
Temujin
, all members can utilise the Gelel Stone's powers to
transform
 into a unique monstrous form.

The three female knights all underestimate their opponents, toying around with little sense of seriousness in battle, believing that their Gelel powers made them invincible, which led to all of their downfalls.

Headquarters

The organisation's base of operation is a flying castle that doubles as a battleship, and Temujin can send signals of Gelel energy with his
sword
 to the ship. Within the ship is a massive machine that converts a portion of life force of children, those who cannot adapt to the Gelel Stone, into armoured soldiers that work on behalf of Haido; Ranke claimed that once they acquired the Gelel vein, the children will be obsolete and disposed of.

Plot Overview

Haido led his knights to invade the
Land of Wind
, in their quest to search for the
Gelel Vein
 for world domination. Eventually, this brought conflict against
Naruto
,
Sakura
 and
Shikamaru
, who were hired by
Kahiko
 to help stop Haido, along with
Gaara
 and
Kankurō
, who were retaliating against the attack on the Land of Wind.

Ranke was killed by
Gaara
 in an earlier battle, and then later Kamira and Fugai died during the final showdown. The armoured soldiers converted from children's life force ultimately betrayed Haido and blocked his
laser blast
 that was meant for Temujin and
Naruto
, and the unconscious children were rescued by Kankurō and Shikamaru. The ship and the bodies of Kamira, Fugai and Haido were all sucked into the
Space–Time Hole
 along with the Gelel Vein and
Book of Gelel
, never to return.

Trivia

The brought by the Gelel stone upon the three female knights can be perceived as references to three classical monster movies: Ranke as
Frankenstein's Monster
, Kamira as
Dracula
, and Fugai as the
werewolf
. Haido's transformation is a reference to another famous monster,
Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde
.

According to Kamira, the traitors of their factions were punished by being sent to the Land of Death, where they were tortured with the Power of Time, and such victims are projected in
her illusion technique
.

While they perform powerful techniques derived from Gelel energy, they have no idea what
chakra
 is, and therefore none of their abilities can be considered to be true
ninjutsu
. Also, they name their attacks in English, as opposed to most techniques being named in Japanese (though only Temujin and Ranke named their attacks).