Haku
 (
白
) was an orphan from the
Land of Water
, and a descendant of the
Yuki clan
.
 He later became a
shinobi
 under
Zabuza Momochi
's tutelage whom he later partnered with, ultimately becoming a
Mercenary Ninja
.

Background






Haku as a child.



Haku was born in a small, snowy village in the
Land of Water
, a land that had suffered from war not long before. In this war, different sides battled each other using ninja, some of whom possessed
kekkei genkai
. After the war ended, memories of the horrific battles still lingered in the minds of the people. Those with kekkei genkai quickly became feared and hated for their abilities, out of concern that their existence would only bring about more war.

Haku's father and mother were simple farmers, and they lived a peaceful life. They loved each other, and were kind to their child. Unfortunately, this would all change. Haku's mother was a wielder of a kekkei genkai:
Ice Release
. She hid this fact from her husband, hoping that the love and peace that was shared in their small family would last forever. One day, Haku discovered the ability to manipulate water. Amazed by this, Haku proudly showed this to his mother, who was horrified by what she saw. She harshly scolded and slapped Haku for displaying his ability, though she tearfully apologized to him immediately afterwards. Unbeknownst to them, Haku's father had seen everything from the shadows. When Haku's father discovered that his wife and child possessed a kekkei genkai, he assembled a small mob of villagers. With tears flowing down his eyes, he killed his wife. He then attempted to kill Haku. But before he could, Haku used his Ice Release to create several large
ice spikes
 to kill his father and the rest of the mob.






Haku agrees to join Zabuza.



Orphaned, Haku became a child who was wanted by no one and was forced to take to the cold streets and rummage through trash bins for scraps of food, even sometimes having to fight off the wild dogs that roamed the streets. In time, he was confronted by Zabuza Momochi, a man who had "the same eyes" as him. Zabuza later asked Haku to become his "weapon," which meant to become a dedicated
shinobi
 for Zabuza. Haku readily accepted this role, due to the purpose it gave him, and devoting his life to becoming the ultimate tool for Zabuza to use. In the anime, upon leaving the Land of Water, Haku and Zabuza met
Kimimaro
. Haku appeared to sympathise with Kimimaro for his loneliness and lack of purpose by looking into his eyes. However, he was forced to keep moving by Zabuza, and left Kimimaro to be.
 Zabuza then trained Haku in the ways of the shinobi, as well as every fighting technique that he knew.

Personality

Haku was a good-hearted, compliant, and eager shinobi, believing that a person becomes truly strong when they have someone important to protect. Despite his talent for battle, and incredible abilities, Haku disliked needing to kill others in his role as a tool, and avoided doing so whenever possible, Zabuza told him he was too soft when Haku decided to face the two
Genin
. When forced to face an opponent, Haku did all that he could to avoid inflicting great harm, even putting them into a death-like state to prevent them from fighting further, as he did to
Sasuke
 during their battle. Before he met
Zabuza
, he suffered from a belief that he was unnecessary, and served Zabuza because he wanted to feel useful, when he couldn't defeat the
Kyubi
's power, he became so demoralized that he begged Naruto to kill him. His loyalty to Zabuza at times even appeared akin to seeing Zabuza as a father as upon hearing from Kakashi how much Zabuza actually cared for Haku, the boy cried in joy at learning this. Aside from his devotion to Zabuza, Haku can feel anger to those he perceived as disrespecting of him, breaking Gatō's arm and threatening to kill his two bodyguards with their own swords when they tried to attack him. Because of Haku's pure, kind-hearted personality, Zabuza believed, despite his deeds as his tool, Haku would be able to thrive in heaven while he was condemned to hell.

Appearance

Haku in his shinobi attire.
Haku in his casual outfit.
1/2

Haku was a 15-year-old boy with an androgynous appearance and was even viewed as being beautiful by Naruto, who exclaimed that he was "prettier than
Sakura
", even after he informed him that he was male.
 He had long black hair, pale skin and large, dark-brown eyes, and a slender frame.

Haku's normal shinobi outfit consisted of the standard Kirigakure pinstriped outfit which stopped at his knees. Over this he wore a green haori with white trimmings, and around his waist a brown sash with a fringed trail wrapped around his waist twice. He also wore light-brown platoon sandals with straps in the same colour as his kimono and nail polish on his fingernails and toenails in matching blue green colour. When wearing this outfit, Haku's long hair was gathered in a white bun holder, while two locks of his hair fell loose framing his face, bound with metal hair cuffs at the ends. Haku also wore a black forehead protector with the Kirigakure's symbol upon it. When in battle or moving covertly, he wore a hunter-nin mask on top of his forehead protector, which was white with thin, curved eye-holes and a red wavy design in place of the mouth, as well as the Kirigakure symbol etched in the top.

When Haku was not in combat, he wore his long hair loosely, and wore a pink, sleeveless kimono, with pale red edges and decorated with small plum-coloured swirls, that went to his ankles. Around his waist was a simple white obi tied in a bow, and he wore a pair of light brown sandals with dark straps. He also wore a dark-coloured choker around his neck.

When he was a child, Haku wore an overly-large, shredded light-brown shirt which fell off his shoulders, and a pair of shredded knee-length pants, as well as the dark choker. Later when taken in by Zabuza, Haku was spotted wearing a short blue kimono with light blue edges and a dark grey split skirt, similar to those ones he wore as a shinobi, and also similar to those he wore as a younger child when his parents were alive.

When he was
reincarnated
, his sclera turned black.

Abilities






Haku attacking shinobi.



A gifted individual of such prodigious talent that, having also been trained by
Zabuza
 himself, Haku was a very dangerous, and powerful ninja for his age. According to Zabuza, in many ways, Haku had become more skillful than the
Anbu
 and the former Seven Mist Ninja Swordsmen member. His skills were great enough for
Kabuto Yakushi
 to reincarnate him with the
Impure World Reincarnation
 technique to fight during the
Fourth Shinobi World War
.

Physical and Chakra Prowess






Haku attacks Zōri and Waraji before they can react.



One of Haku's defining battle-traits was his sheer speed. His speed is so tremendous that he was able to quickly close the gap between
Zōri
 and
Waraji
 and take their swords from them before either of them realised what had happened.
 Zabuza was visibly shocked that Sasuke could outpace Haku, although this was only due to Sasuke applying chakra to his feet to increase his speed.
 Haku's speed, however, increases to incredible levels when using his
Demonic Mirroring Ice Crystals
, making it appear like he was in all the mirrors at once even though he was just travelling in between them at extraordinary speeds. His speed was such that Sasuke could not see nor react to his attacks until he awakened the
Sharingan
.

Like Zabuza, Haku was highly proficient with the
Silent Killing
, able to effectively strike down enemies within zero visibility, in some cases in perfect unison with his teacher. Haku was strong enough to carry Zabuza's body a safe distance away without losing speed.
 This strength is further highlighted when Haku nearly broke
Gatō
 arm after casually grabbing it.
 Haku had noticeable
taijutsu
 skill, able to effectively block a
kick
 from
Might Guy
 and
Rock Lee
 in unison.
 Haku also had the ability to perform
hand seals
 with only one hand, a skill that amazed even
Kakashi
.
 Upon his
reanimation
, he demonstrated having a powerful chakra as well, being visible to the naked eye.

Ninjutsu






Haku using Ice Release.



Haku is shown to be adept in
shurikenjutsu
, able to precisely hit key points in a person's body with
senbon
 from great distances.
 Haku's most noticeable power was the utilisation of
water
 and
wind
-natured chakra to create
Ice Release
.
 His power over ice granted him special techniques, like the
Demonic Mirroring Ice Crystals
, which surrounds a target with mirrors that Haku could travel between and attack from, even if his opponent is in the sky. During his flashbacks of his youth in the anime, Haku was shown to release
large spikes made of ice
 when he was about to be killed by his father. Defensively, he could create an
ice dome
 that is capable of blocking multiple explosive tags at once.
 Furthermore, it has been implied that Haku could affect the weather, causing localised snowfall.
 He could also use his two elements individually, such as his
Thousand Flying Water Needles of Death
, which uses his water nature to concentrate the surrounding water into needles to attack enemies from all angles.

Intelligence

Haku possessed a very detailed knowledge of human physiology, thanks to Zabuza's former Anbu training. His knowledge was great enough that he could disable an opponent with
acupuncture
 by hitting a precise point on the body with a senbon, to cause immediate death or a temporary appearance of such.
 Haku was also very keen-minded, as he had been shown to have great observational and analytical abilities, capable of quickly determining a way around an opponent's technique or strategy. Haku also appears to have knowledge of some animals as he was able to detect the
Allied Shinobi Forces
'
Surprise Attack Division
 based on the unusual flight pattern of the birds
Sai
 had made. Haku also knew a lot about herbalism, as he often collected plants to use for medical purposes.

Stats

Databook

Ninjutsu

Taijutsu

Genjutsu

Intelligence

Strength

Speed

Stamina

Hand seals

Total

First

3.5

1

1

4

1.5

4

2

4

21

Part I

Prologue — Land of Waves

Main article:
Prologue — Land of Waves






Haku retreating with Zabuza.



When Zabuza was about to be killed by
Kakashi Hatake
, Haku appeared, disguised as a
hunter-nin
, playing the part by appearing to kill Zabuza and pretending to be a hunter ninja who was after Zabuza. After this, he is reprimanded by
Naruto Uzumaki
 for the "death" of a strong rival, and Haku then proceeds to take away the unconscious body. He took the body elsewhere preparing to cut the bandage to remove the blood, but Zabuza suddenly wakes up and says that he will do it himself. Haku asks him not to be abrupt, but Zabuza asks when he will be wearing the Anbu mask but Haku replies that it reminded him of the old days and was useful in the rescue, adding that Zabuza would have died if he had not appeared, Zabuza replies that he attacked his neck, but Haku says that he did not want to leave scars on Zabuza's "beautiful body" also highlighting the lack of muscles in his neck. In this Haku adds that Zabuza will not be able to move for a week, Zabuza praises him for being pure and intelligent but Haku argues that he is still a child and then realizes that the mist disappeared, leaving Zabuza to rest a week before he could have a rematch with Kakashi.

During that time, a disenchanted
Gatō
 appears, mocking Zabuza, and his bodyguards,
Zōri
 and
Waraji
 prepare to unsheathe their swords, what caught Haku's attention. The tycoon tells them to wait as they approach Zabuza, but Haku threatened Gatō not to touch Zabuza as he recovered. After an attempt to attack him, he held Gato's subordinates' swords against their own necks warning them not to continue since he was starting to get angry. After the incident, Gatō gives them an ultimatum that if they fail again they will be expelled. After Gatō leaving the refuge, Zabuza replied that they shouldn't interfere, but Haku argued that if they cause a stir, they would be hunted down again, choosing to be patient. Later, he changes into his casual attire to look for medicinal plants and finds Naruto unconscious from training and wakes him up, warning him that he's about to catch a cold. After he had a conversation with him about their purposes in life and those they care about, Haku finishes collecting plants showing faith that the ninja will become stronger and that they will see each other very soon, and he finally clarifies that he's a man.






Haku facing Naruto and Sasuke.



During Zabuza's second fight with Kakashi, Haku (wearing the same mask as when he saved Zabuza) was drawn into battle with Kakashi's students: first Sasuke and then Naruto. He trapped Sasuke with his
Demonic Mirroring Ice Crystals
, and started bombarding him with needles, until Naruto came, with the same happening to him. With both tired out, when Sasuke appeared to have died protecting Naruto from a "fatal" blow (in actuality being put in a death-like state by Haku), Naruto, in anger, tapped into the power of the
Nine-Tailed Demon Fox
 sealed within him. He was able to attack Haku, and break through the mirrors, in turn breaking Haku's mask. Recognising Haku from earlier, Naruto regained his senses in time to stop himself from killing Haku.






Haku's death.



Naruto recognizes him and reprimands him for following someone like Zabuza but Haku tells him about the persecution of people with Kekkei Genkai and how it involved his tragic childhood, he states that when Zabuza asked him to come with him for his unique abilities, he said that it made him very happy, Naruto reprimands him for following someone like Zabuza. Haku, defeated, and thus of no further use to Zabuza, asked Naruto to kill him anyway. Though reluctant, Naruto tried to comply, if it would make Haku happy. Before Naruto could do so, however, Haku sensed that Zabuza was about to be killed by Kakashi. Finding one final purpose, he parried Naruto's attack and went to Zabuza, using himself as a human shield against Kakashi's
Lightning Cutter
. Before he died, he grabbed Kakashi's arm, hoping that in death he would be useful to Zabuza in defeating his opponent. Zabuza thanked him, and tried to cut through his body to kill Kakashi, but Kakashi was able to pull away from the attack.






Haku in death beside Zabuza.



After both of Zabuza's arms got injured, Zabuza's employer,
Gatō
, arrived soon afterwards, and chose to end his contract with Zabuza, having brought his men to kill him. Gatō was quick to defile Haku's body. While initially unperturbed by this, Zabuza was brought to tears by the act when Naruto told him of how Haku felt about him. In a final act of repentance, Zabuza took one of Naruto's kunai, went through all the men, and stabbed and slashed Gatō several times, at the cost of his own life. As he died from the injuries given to him by Gatō's men, Zabuza asked to be brought beside Haku in death to see his face one more time, and he explained how he'd wish to go to where Haku will go in the afterlife. Kakashi finally claimed that he promises they both will go together. In the aftermath, Haku was buried next to Zabuza.

Part II

Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation

Main article:
Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation

In preparation for the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, Haku was
reincarnated
 by
Kabuto Yakushi
 to fight against the
Allied Shinobi Forces
, before being mobilised alongside
Gari
,
Pakura
 and
Toroi
. Conversing with Zabuza, Haku noted their situation to be unusual, as his body was moving of its own accord despite his mind being clear.






Haku protects Zabuza.



Ambushed by the
Surprise Attack Division
, Haku quickly
protected
 both himself and Zabuza from the
explosive tags
 carried by
Sai
's
ink birds
. Locating the enemy's position in the sky, Haku created a
mirror
 above them and shot them down with his
senbon
, before rejoining the other reincarnated shinobi below. Involuntarily storming the grounded opposition, Haku was intercepted by
Rock Lee
 before he could deal the deadly blow. As Zabuza talked with Kakashi, the latter revealed that Naruto had become an admirable shinobi since they had fought him, to which Haku happily remarked that he believed Naruto would only continue to improve.






Haku stands with the others as his consciousness is erased.



As Kabuto erased their consciousness, Haku pleaded with Kakashi to stop them again while stating his belief that he had failed as Zabuza's tool, since the latter was also dead. When Kakashi rebuffed this stating that he had in fact succeeded, that Zabuza died avenging Haku because he truly viewed Haku as more than a mere tool, a tearful Haku silently thanked Zabuza as the last of his consciousness faded away. A mindless Haku then launched into an assault, killing several
Third Division
 shinobi, until he was
repelled
 by
Might Guy
 and Rock Lee.






Haku gets bisected by Zabuza.



After the previous generation of the
Seven Ninja Swordsmen of the Mist
 are
summoned
 to the battlefield, Haku returned to his mirrors, as the swordsmen began their
silent
 massacre on the
mist-covered
 battlefield. Kabuto later moved Haku to intercept Kakashi's attempt to
incapacitate
 Zabuza — reflecting how he had blocked Kakashi in their first encounter. An impaled Haku then kept Kakashi still so that Zabuza could attack; bisecting Haku in the process.
Ensui Nara
 then
immobilised
 Haku, giving
Maki
 the opportunity to
bind
 and
seal
 him and Zabuza after his defeat.

Fourth Shinobi World War: Climax

Main article:
Fourth Shinobi World War: Climax

Later, with the release of the Impure World Reincarnation technique, a light of sorts encased Haku's sealed body as the technique was dispelled, and his soul was returned to the
afterlife
.

Legacy






Zabuza and Haku's grave.



Both Haku and Zabuza had a profound influence in Naruto's life and their interactions were the factor of Naruto's
nindō
 of never abandoning his comrades. During his and Zabuza's reincarnation in the midst of the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, Kakashi admitted that it was because of him and Zabuza that Naruto strove to become the ninja and hero that he is.
 Naruto himself credits Haku and Zabuza as people who had a great influence on his life and his views on the world.

In Other Media

Video Games

Haku is a playable character in the following video games:

Game name
Japanese release
English release
Jumputi Heroes
28 March 2018
Naruto Mobile
2016
2016
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja 4
5 April 2007
24 March 2009
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja 5
20 December 2007
27 November 2009
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Blazing
14 July 2016
24 August 2016
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 3
18 April 2013
5 March 2013
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 4
4 February 2016
9 February 2016
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm Generations
23 February 2012
13 March 2012
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm Revolution
11 September 2014
16 September 2014
Naruto to Boruto: Shinobi Striker
30 August 2018
31 August 2018
Naruto x Boruto: Ninja Tribes
June 2019
June 2019
Naruto x Boruto: Ninja Voltage
22 November 2017
22 November 2017
Naruto x Boruto: Ultimate Ninja Storm Connections
16 November 2023
17 November 2023
Naruto: Clash of Ninja
11 April 2003
7 March 2006
Naruto: Clash of Ninja 2
4 December 2003
26 September 2006
Naruto: Gekitō Ninja Taisen! 3
20 November 2004
Naruto: Gekitō Ninja Taisen! 4
21 November 2005
Naruto: Konoha Senki
12 September 2003
Naruto: Path of the Ninja 2
13 July 2006
14 October 2008
Naruto: Rise of a Ninja
30 October 2007
Naruto: Shinobi Collection
2014
Naruto: Shinobi Collection Shippū Ranbu
27 July 2015
Naruto: Shinobi no Sato no Jintori Kassen
26 June 2003
Naruto: The Broken Bond
18 November 2008
Naruto: Ultimate Ninja
23 October 2003
26 June 2006
Naruto: Ultimate Ninja 2
30 September 2004
12 June 2007
Naruto: Ultimate Ninja 3
22 December 2005
25 March 2008
Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Online
14 April 2013
20 July 2016

Live Action

Live Spectacle Naruto

Main article:
Live Spectacle Naruto

Miho Imamura plays as Haku in this stage play adaption.

Trivia

The name "Haku" means "white" (
白
), while his family name "Yuki" means "snow" (
雪
).

Despite his early death, and short appearances in the story, Haku has remained a relatively popular character in the story. He routinely appears in favourite character lists, but has fallen out of the top 10 in more recent polls.

Haku and his Ice Release ability were made reference to in Part II, when Naruto was learning about different kinds of chakra.

Haku's mask made a cameo appearance in the ending omake of
Shippūden

episode 129
, along with Tobi's mask and Baki's mask. He also appears in person alongside Zabuza, Hayate Gekkō, and several Amegakure ninja in
episode 183
 of Shippūden.

In
Naruto: Shippūden

episode 146
, a
hunter-nin
 appears with a mask and hair style similar to Haku's.

In the Ishikawa Prefecture of Japan, there is a snow-covered, potentially active volcano known as
Mount Haku
.

In Part I, Haku wasn't depicted wearing lipstick neither in the manga nor anime. In Part II, however, when he is reincarnated, he is seen wearing lipstick (dark shade in the manga and light shade in the anime) in the present and in flashbacks.

In 2019,
Masashi Kishimoto
 revealed that Haku was originally going to be a bear, before his editor suggested that they change him into a human.

The way Naruto destroys Haku's mask was later mirrored when Naruto destroyed
Obito
's mask.

Studio Pierrot's Settei sheets of Haku show that his sandals add 5 cm on to his height.

The manner in which Kakashi killed Haku mirrored the way Kakashi killed
Rin Nohara
, as both times were accidental, due to both Haku and Rin moving in front of Kakashi's attack and being impaled through the chest.

Quotes

(To
Gatō
)
"Don't touch Zabuza with your dirty hands……"
 (
「汚い手で再不斬さんにさわるな……」
,
"Kitanai te de Zabuza-san ni sawaruna……"
)

(To
Naruto
)
"When a person… has something important they want to protect… that's when they can become truly
strong
."
 (
「人は…大切な何かを守りたいと思った時に本当に
強くなれる
ものなんです」
,
"Hito wa… taisetsuna nanika o mamoritai to omotta toki ni hontō ni
tsuyoku nareru
 mono nan desu."
)

(To
Zabuza
)
"Mister… you have the same eyes as me…"
 (
「お兄ちゃんも…ボクと同じ目してる…」
,
"Onii-chan mo… boku to onaji me shiteru…"
)

(To Naruto)
"If possible, I don't want to have to kill you……… nor do I want you to have to kill me…… However, if you come at me……… I will kill my heart with a blade and become a true shinobi."
 (
「出来るなら君達を殺したくないし………君達にボクを殺させたくもない……　けれど　君達が向かってくれなら………ボクは　刃で心を殺し忍になりくる」
,
"Dekiru nara kimi-tachi o koroshitakunai shi……… Kimi-tachi ni boku o korosasetaku mo nai…… keredo kimi-tachi ga mukatte kure nara……… boku wa yaiba de kokoro o koroshi shinobi ni nari kuru."
)

(To Naruto)
"This bridge is where our dreams are tied together. The place where we fight. Me, for my dreams. You, for your dreams. Please don't resent me."
 (
「この橋はそれぞれの夢へとつながる。戦いの場所。ボクは ボクの夢の為に。君達は 君達の夢の為に。恨まないで下さい」
,
"Kono hashi wa sorezore no yume e to tsunagaru. Tatakai no basho. Boku wa boku no yume no tame ni. Kimi-tachi wa kimi-tachi no yume no tame ni. Uramanaide kudasai."
)

(To Naruto)
"I want to protect the person important to me… I want to work for that person. I want to fight for that person. I want to make that person's dream come true… That is my dream."
 (
「ボクは大切な人を護りたい…その人の為に働き、その人の為に戦い、その人の夢を叶えたい…それがボクの夢」
,
"Boku wa taisetsu na hito o mamoritai… Sono hito no tame ni hataraki, sono hito no tame ni tatakai, sono hito no yume o kanaetai… Sore ga boku no yume."
)

(To Naruto)
"Can you understand? Not having a dream… not being needed by anyone… The pain of
merely being alive
."
 (
「知っていますか?夢もなく…誰からも必要とされず…
ただ生きること
の苦しみを」
,
"Shitte imasu ka? Yume mo naku… dare kara mo hitsuyō to sarezu…
Tada ikiru koto
 no kurushimi o."
)

(To Naruto)
"I realised the most painful thing…… That in this world…
my existence was not needed
."
 (
「それが一番辛いことだと知った……自分が この世にまるで…
必要とされない存在
だということです」
,
"Sore ga ichiban tsurai koto da to shitta…… Jibun ga kono yo ni marude…
hitsuyō to sarenai sonzai
 da to iu koto desu."
)

References