This article is about the member of the Inuzuka clan.  For other uses, see
Hana
.

Hana Inuzuka
 (
犬塚ハナ
,
Inuzuka Hana
) is a
chūnin
 from
Konohagakure
's
Inuzuka clan
, as well as an excellent and respected veterinary
medical-nin
. Her canine companions are
ninken
 triplets: the
Three Haimaru Brothers
.

Background






Hana during her Academy days.



In the anime, Hana entered the
Academy
 at the same time and shared a class with
Izumi Uchiha
,
Itachi Uchiha
,
Saisu Kamano
, and
Maruten Akimichi
, under the tutelage of
Daikoku Funeno
. She was not yet accompanied by her ninken at that time.

Personality

Hana is quite affectionate to her little brother as well as her dogs.
 Compared to her family, she is more laid-back and more even-tempered, although she still at times lives up to her clan's feral demeanour, and is more than willing to fight to defend her village. Similar to most of the Inuzuka clan, Hana is fiercely loyal to her family, and appears to be very close to her brother Kiba, stemming from how often Hana looked after Kiba while they mother was away on missions. Nevertheless, Hana is not above chastising Kiba, calling him a coward over his unability to help cure Akamaru from his infection at the hands of a biological weapon.

It is obvious that she possesses a very sharp and attentive mind in regards to medical techniques, especially those pertaining to veterinary medicine. However, despite being a gifted veterinarian, Hana is shown to be less skilled in domestic pursuits, as her mending of
Naruto Uzumaki
's bitten pants left something to be desired, resembling
sutures
 more than sewing.

Appearance






Hana and her ninken.



Hana has long brown hair which she wears in a ponytail with two locks of hair framing her face over her large, black eyes. She also wears a light shade of lipstick and has the traditional fang-like tattoos of the Inuzuka clan on both of her cheeks, in addition to a tattoo on her upper right arm that resembles a flower (perhaps a pun on her name, which can also mean "flower", as well as "nose"). She wears a brace on her left wrist, bracelets on her right hand as well as bandages and usually wears the beige Konoha medic uniform when on duty in the village, and during battle wears a form-fitting variation of the Konoha flak jacket which doesn't have any chest pockets and she keeps the front of her jacket unzipped, exposing her cleavage. She also wears a pair of form-fitting shorts cut just above the knee, bandages just below her tattoo and wrist-warmers. Hana also noticeably has a softer appearance than the other members of her family, not having slit-like eyes, or wild, shaggy hair. During the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, she donned the standard uniform of the Konoha-nin and the
forehead protector
 of the
Allied Shinobi Forces
.

As a child, she wore light-brown clothes with white fur around the collar and a grey sash around her waist.

Abilities

Inuzuka Clan Abilities






Hana and her ninken using the Fang Rotating Fang.



As an Inuzuka, Hana fights in collaboration with her beloved companions, the
Three Haimaru Brothers
. She is seemingly well versed in her clan's techniques, and can use the
Four Legs Technique
, which forms the basis of all of her clan's attacks, with great skill. This was attested to during the
Fourth Shinobi World War
 when she used the
Fang Rotating Fang
 — a technique where instead of rotating (as in the
Fang Passing Fang
 technique), she and her ninken roll at high speeds and is able to shred the enemy to pieces. Like the members of her clan, she is also a skilled tracker employing her enhanced sense of smell to detect and track her target. This was seen in the anime, when she was given the mission to track down Akamaru who was sick and administer medicine to him.

Medical Ninjutsu

Hana is a
medical-nin
; a field which requires excellent chakra control and a great wealth of knowledge. She specialises in veterinary medicine and has proven herself to be a talented medical-nin, as she was able to heal Akamaru who was severely injured during his and Kiba's encounter with
Sakon and Ukon
 on their mission to retrieve Sasuke Uchiha.

Part I

Chūnin Exams

Main article:
Chūnin Exams

In the anime, it was revealed that prior to the start of the invasion, Hana, along with the Haimaru Brothers, and another shinobi were assigned to investigate rumours of a disturbance in part of the village. While heading towards the area, they came across
Kabuto Yakushi
, who she advised to head home after learning that he was not aware of the situation.

Konoha Crush

Main article:
Konoha Crush






Hana and Tsume rush to defend the village.



During the
Konoha Crush
, Hana aided her mother in defending Konoha from the invading
Otogakure
 and
Sunagakure
 ninja alongside their ninken partners the
Three Haimaru Brothers
 and
Kuromaru
 respectively. In the anime, she was later seen at the
Third Hokage
's funeral, mourning his loss.

Sasuke Recovery Mission

Main article:
Sasuke Recovery Mission






Hana treats Akamaru's injuries.



Following Kiba's battle with
Sakon and Ukon
, Hana tended to
Akamaru
's injuries while reassuring Kiba that he would be fine.

Akamaru Monitoring Mission

Main article:
Akamaru Monitoring Mission

In the anime, Akamaru contracted a disease from a biological weapon which causes him to become feral at night. Hana, along with the veterinarians at the hospital, were tasked with curing him. The hospital was unable to complete its treatment of the disease before Kiba broke Akamaru out, unwilling to trust the other doctors with Akamaru's care. Hana was given a cure made by Konoha medical-nin for a gambled cure with a 50/50 success/fail rate. Hana and her ninken were assigned by
Tsunade
 to inject it into Akamaru before his condition became irreversible and with help from Kiba, Naruto, and her dogs, were able to cure him.

Part II

Pain's Assault

Main article:
Pain's Assault

In the anime, Tsume stated that Hana was taking care of the other nin-dogs during
Pain
's invasion. Later after Naruto's defeat of Pain, she appears alongside the other villagers celebrating his victory.

Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation

Main article:
Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation






Hana is assigned to the Fifth Division.



Hana is then seen in the
Allied Shinobi Forces
 as a member of the
Fifth Division
. She scolds Kiba, for treating the
war
 like a game. Mifune sends her with other members of the Fifth Division to backup Kitsuchi's division after being informed that they had found the enemy travelling underground. When the
White Zetsu Army
 is unearthed by Kitsuchi and Kurotsuchi, she attacks the clones along with her brother using the
Fang Rotating Fang
 technique.

In Other Media

Movies

Naruto the Movie: Blood Prison

Main article:
Naruto the Movie: Blood Prison

During Naruto's flashback to the members of the village when he was gathering
natural energy
 to enter
Sage Mode
, Hana can been seen amongst the villagers.

Video Games

Hana Inuzuka is a playable character in the following video games:

Game name
Japanese release
English release
Naruto Mobile
2016
2016
Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Online
14 April 2013
20 July 2016

Trivia

Hana either means "flower" (
花
) or "nose" (
鼻
).

According to the databook(s):

Hana is always eager to study.

Hana's favourite food is
tsukune
.

According to her profile in
Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Online
:

Hana has the following stats: 90 in Vitality, 100 in Taijutsu, 80 in Defense, 80 in Ninjutsu, 50 in Resistance.

She is considered talented, intelligent, and collected, and is the pride of the Inuzuka clan.

References