This article is about chapter 620. For the character, see
Hashirama Senju
.

"
Hashirama Senju
" (
千手柱間
,
Senju Hashirama
) is chapter 620 of the original
Naruto
 manga.

Summary

As
Sasuke
 boldly declares that
Hashirama
's response would decide whether or not he should take revenge on
Konohagakure
, an enraged
Tobirama
 states he would not allow it as he prepares to fight Sasuke. However, in a fierce exchange of silent wills that sends those around them into near-frenzied panic while the
Naka Shrine
 quakes from the energy from their stand off, Tobirama finally stands down at Hashirama's order with
Hiruzen
 breathing a sigh of relief and
Minato
 marvelled. Praising
Itachi
 to be a better shinobi than himself, Hashirama agrees to answer though it will be a long one. When he tells takes the First Hokage to make it abridged,
Orochimaru
 reveals the war occurring outside the village with
Madara
 leading the attack. While Hiruzen pleas Orochimaru to let them go and aid their people, Minato and Tobirama
sense
 the situation to confirm it, with the former glad that his
son
 was able to work with
Kurama
. Even after Orochimaru refuses to have them leave and considers having them ironically destroy Konoha on Sasuke's choice, Tobirama ignores his summoner's threat as he was about to go to the battlefield. However, thanks to now acquiring
Hashirama's genetic material
, the binding of the
Impure World Reincarnation
 had become more powerful with only Hashirama breaking free of the additional restraint. Allaying the
Sannin
's fears, Hashirama tells Orochimaru that he intends to first free Sasuke from
the darkness surrounded him
 as he casually takes a seat on the ground and begins the retelling of the story of his confrontation with Madara at the
Valley of the End
 and the history of the
Senju
 and
Uchiha
.

Trivia

In the original publication, when Sasuke deactivates his Mangekyō Sharingan, it is his own, regular Mangekyō Sharingan, without Itachi's Mangekyō on top of it. In the tankōbon release, Itachi's Mangekyō is added, resulting in Sasuke's Eternal Mangekyō Sharingan.