This article is about chapter 626.  For other uses, see
Hashirama and Madara (disambiguation)
.

"
Hashirama and Madara — 2
" (
柱間とマダラ 其ノ弐
,
Hashirama to Madara — Sono Ni
) is chapter 626 of the original
Naruto
 manga.

Summary

Confused about what
Madara
 said,
Hashirama
 questions his friend, asking if what they were building in the village wasn't his true dreams. Madara rebuffs Hashirama, noting that his dream had no connection to the village. Despite the fact that Madara abandoned
Konohagakure
, other nations praised the innovative system that had been created and soon began to imitate it upon seeing what two previously rival clans could create. As time passed, the village flourished greatly, however, this was punctuated with random attacks on the village by Madara. In what would become their ultimate battle on
the edge of the Land of Fire and Land of Sound
, after the
Susanoo
-clad
Kurama
 was shattered by
a thousand punches
, the titanic battle waned down to the two men facing each other directly —
sword
 and
kama
 respectively. As Hashirama fell, Madara noted that unlike all the other times, he was the one left standing. As Hashirama tried to speak reason to his former comrade and Madara constantly ridiculed the dream they once shared, Hashirama pierces Madara from behind with a sword revealing that it was only a
wood clone
 that fell and not Hashirama himself. Declaring that he would protect his village believing it to be the best way to protect
shinobi
, and that anyone that tried to destroy that would receive no forgiveness from him. As Madara fell, Hashirama resolved himself to endure in order to protect his dream while Madara, still resolute, declared that he would one day become darkness which enveloped the village. Back in present day, Hashirama tells those present on site that he did not know how Madara survived, because he was sure he had killed him. He then goes on to tell them that it was for the sake of the village. After explaining what his vision for the village was, Hashirama goes on to explain that shinobi were people who endure to achieve their goals, but depending on what they chose as their goals, it could change who they were; like the way Madara, and he himself had changed.