This article is about the episode.  For other uses, see
Hashirama and Madara (disambiguation)
.

"
Hashirama and Madara
" (
柱間とマダラ
,
Hashirama to Madara
) is episode 367 of the
Naruto: Shippūden
 anime.

Summary

Hashirama
 continues to tell his story about their friendship with
Madara Uchiha
, when at their younger years they meet at a river and a frustrated Madara tries to skip his stone to the other side. Hashirama surprises Madara by skipping his stone as well and reaches the other side of the river. As Madara vents out his frustration, a feeling humiliated Hashirama apologises to Madara and they started their unique friendship despite not disclosing their surnames.
 Back in the
Senju clan
, a funeral for the fallen ninjas including Hashirama's younger brother,
Kawarama
, has been held. Hashirama vents out his disapproval to his father about children being put to war but his father punches Hashirama. Hashirama talked to his brothers
Tobirama
 and
Itama
 about the ongoing war with the
Uchiha clan
 and the utilisation of children to fight its adversary. Another fight erupts with the Senjus against the Uchihas and Itama has been killed by Uchiha shinobi. Hashirama arrives late and saw his brother dead. At the river, Madara notices a depressed Hashirama and Madara had the same feeling as well where he reveals that he had also brothers who are fallen to the ongoing war. Despite their depression, they continue their training and their friendship blooms as well. After their training, Tobirama arrives to Hashirama telling that their father has something to tell very important. At the Senju clan, Hashirama's father,
Butsuma
 tells them that he asked Tobirama to tail Hashirama and the boy, Madara, being acquainted to Hashirama hails from the Uchiha clan noting that Madara killed adult ninjas from their clan. Butsuma warns Hashirama that this could lead to treason and in order from being punished, Butsuma asks Hashirama to follow Madara after their training and if Madara becomes suspicious, Butsuma recommends Hashirama to kill Madara.

Trivia

In the manga, Butsuma punched Hashirama with his left hand, where as in the anime he is seen punching him with his right hand.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Hashirama Senju
Takayuki Sugo
菅生 隆之
Sugō Takayuki
Peter Lurie
Hashirama Senju (child)
Yuki Tai
泰 勇気
Tai Yūki
Max Mittelman
Madara Uchiha (child)
Go Inoue
井上 剛
Inoue Gō
Xander Mobus
Butsuma Senju
Keijin Okuda
奥田 啓人
Okuda Keijin
Aaron LaPlante
Tobirama Senju (child)
Kengo Kawanishi
河西 健吾
Kawanishi Kengo
Benjamin Diskin
Itama Senju (child)
Mariko Higashiuchi
東内 マリ子
Higashiuchi Mariko
Nicolas Roye