"
Hiashi's Birthday
" (
ヒアシの誕生日
,
Hiashi no Tanjōbi
) is episode 138 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Hanabi
 proposes to
Hinata
 throwing their father a birthday party, who she believes has been down due to not having seen his grandchildren lately. By Hanabi's request, Hinata invites her family, and suggests that
Hiashi
 will be happy to get surprise gifts from
Boruto
 and
Himawari
. Having no idea what to get him, Boruto asks
Sarada
 and
Mitsuki
 for advice. They have no idea, and Boruto enlists Mitsuki to help him. They try sneaking into the
Hyūga
 compound, but are caught by Hanabi, who confesses she also has no idea what her father would like.
Gatai
 from
Kumogakure
 arrives and issues a challenge to Hiashi, based on renown and claim of strength. Boruto and Mitsuki hide from Hiashi, who has Hanabi say he's away. Gatai doesn't believe her, and concludes Hiashi must be weak. Hanabi explains Hiashi always turns away such challengers, which further confuses Boruto. Hanabi reports back to Hiashi, who clarifies his claim of Hyūga strength isn't about force, something he wishes he had realised sooner, as he looks to a photo of himself, Hinata,
Hizashi
, and
Neji
. Boruto discusses Hiashi with Mitsuki, noting that while he dotes on his grandchildren, everyone else mentions how strict he was in the past. Mitsuki asks if something happened that triggered a change in him. Gatai and his attendant arrive at the
Lightning Burger
, boasting of having Hiashi scared of facing him. Fed up with his bad-mouthing of Hiashi, Boruto challenges Gatai. Boruto easily evades Gatai's
attacks
, and enrages him when saying he wouldn't even be a match for Hanabi.
 Gatai's attacks cause damage to their surroundings, and when Boruto decides to use the
Rasengan
, Hiashi stops their battle, having heard the name Hyūga was invoked in a duel. Blaming his own lack of foresight for Boruto's action, he accepts Gatai's challenge. Gatai backs down and leaves. Boruto is impressed with Hiashi's power, but Hiashi stresses that using power and fear to settle things breeds tragedy and enmity. Boruto doesn't understand why Hiashi allows himself to be mistaken for weak, and can't stand others making fun of him. Hiashi admits he has no standing to lecture Boruto, and that he lived a very different life until he learned better, but refuses to elaborate and leaves.
Mirai
 arrives, having heard shinobi were fighting, and Boruto says it was just a misunderstanding. Learning that Mirai's mother
Kurenai
 used to be Hinata's team captain, Mitsuki suggests asking her for insight on Hiashi. Mirai takes them to her mother, who has an idea of what Boruto wants to know, but is unsure if she should speak of internal family matters. Mirai and Mitsuki excuse themselves, and Kurenai tells Boruto of the
Hyūga Affair
 and how it shaped Hiashi. Mitsuki asks if Boruto knows what to gift him, and Kurenai points out that his past is why he cherishes time with his grandchildren so much. On his birthday, Himawari gives Hiashi a scarf, and much to Hiashi's surprise, Boruto wants to take a family photo, to have as a record that they're happy. Hiashi is overcome with emotion. At night, after Hinata and the children are asleep, Hiashi asks Naruto if he gave Boruto the idea while he makes them tea. Naruto says it was all Boruto. Hiashi thanks Naruto for changing Neji, him, and the Hyūga. The next day, Mitsuki and Sarada ask Boruto what he got for Hiashi. Hiashi appears at the Uzumaki home, wanting to spend time with Boruto, much to his embarrassment.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Hinata Uzumaki
Nana Mizuki
水樹 奈々
Mizuki Nana
Himawari Uzumaki
Saori Hayami
早見 沙織
Hayami Saori
Hiashi Hyūga
Eizo Tsuda
津田 英三
Tsuda Eizō
Hanabi Hyūga
Kiyomi Asai
浅井 清己
Asai Kiyomi
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Kurenai Sarutobi
Rumi Ochiai
落合 るみ
Ochiai Rumi
Mirai Sarutobi
Eri Goda
合田 絵利
Gōda Eri
Gatai
Hidenari Ugaki
宇垣 秀成
Ugaki Hidenari
Gatai's attendant
Kazuya Saji
佐治 和也
Saji Kazuya
Lightning Burger customer
Ryo Nishitani
西谷 亮
Nishitani Ryō