"
Himawari's Ninja Trial Session
" (
ヒマワリ、忍者体験!!
,
Himawari, Ninja Taiken!!
) is episode 154 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Walking around
Konohagakure
,
Himawari
 passes through several businesses, including
Ino
's and
Tenten
's shops.
Hinata
,
Hanabi
, and
Boruto
 discuss Himawari's career path. Hanabi thinks Himawari will become a shinobi like other
Hyūga
, but Hinata and Boruto think the decision rests with Himawari. Hanabi offers her a pamphlet, showing that the
Academy
 is holding a one-day trial, in case Himawari wants to get a feel of what being a shinobi is like. Himawari thinks it might be fun, and accepts. The lesson is overseen by
Iruka
 and
Shino
. During introductions, the other students are surprised that Himawari is the
Hokage
's daughter. Their first lesson is an obstacle course, where
Ehō
 and Himawari do the best. Next, Shino demonstrates walking on vertical surfaces, and though none of the students are able to do it, Himawari is almost able to do it, impressing everyone. They move on to target practice with
shurikenjutsu
.
Yuina
 is impressed by Himawari's performance, who explains she sometimes trains with her brother. Ehō wants to be Himawari's rival, and is surprised that she still doesn't know if she wants to be a shinobi. He feels self-conscious about being out-performed by someone who isn't sure they'll be a shinobi, and becomes stand-offish with Himawari.
Anko
 takes the students to a simple mission. Iruka and Shino discuss the possibility of Himawari joining the Academy.
 Iruka, as principal, bemoans the fact that he doesn't get to interact with students during classes, so Shino invites him to observe with him. The students' mission is to find a lost cat at Senju Park. They're given flares to signal if they think the mission is impossible to continue, at which point adults will intervene, though that also means they fail the mission. Though the park is vast, Yuina finds tracks. Iruka and Shino observe them. Noticing Himawari's hesitation, Ehō tells her leave if she doesn't want to take part in it, and throws a rock in frustration. The rock knocks a hornet hive, and the hornets chase them. Himawari considers using the flare, but Ehō doesn't let her. They manage to get away from the hornets, and he splits from Himawari, taking Yuina with him. Iruka and Shino approach her, and tell her it's okay for her not to know if she wants to be a shinobi, which motivates her to carry on. Ehō and Yuina manage to find the cat, but end up falling into a well. Himawari uses her
Byakugan
 to look for them. Though she finds them, Ehō refuses to let her help him. He prepares to use his flare, so Himawari jumps down the well to stop him, and motivates him not to give up. The three of them lean on each other to climb out of the well. Ehō apologises for his behaviour towards Himawari, and tries to get her to hit him as punishment. The teachers watch from a distance, satisfied with the result. At home, Himawari tells her brother and mother she wants to learn more about all kinds of jobs and insists Boruto to help her out.

Trivia

This was the last completed episode to air in Japan before the anime's hiatus due to the
COVID-19 pandemic
 and the subsequent production shutdown. It resumed three months later on July 5th, 2020.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Himawari Uzumaki
Saori Hayami
早見 沙織
Hayami Saori
Ehō Norimaki
Ryoko Shiraishi
白石 涼子
Shiraishi Ryōko
Yuina Itomaki
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Hinata Uzumaki
Nana Mizuki
水樹 奈々
Mizuki Nana
Hanabi Hyūga
Kiyomi Asai
浅井 清己
Asai Kiyomi
Iruka Umino
Toshihiko Seki
関 俊彦
Seki Toshihiko
Anko Mitarashi
Takako Honda
本田 貴子
Honda Takako
Shino Aburame
Shinji Kawada
川田 紳司
Kawada Shinji
Ino Yamanaka
Ryoka Yuzuki
柚木 涼香
Yuzuki Ryōka