"
Himawari Kidnapped!
" (
ヒマワリ誘拐事件
,
Himawari Yūkai Jiken
) is episode 266 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Kawaki
 is assigned cleaning duty at the end of the day at the
Academy
.
Himawari
 is going shopping with
Kae
,
Batora
 overseeing them. Kawaki isn't concerned, as
jōnin
 watch Kae outside the Academy. Himawari tries talking to
Osuka
 and
Neon
, but Osuka rebukes her. Two masked men watch them through the window. Neon apologises to Himawari, who doesn't mind. Neon's mother picks her up at the Academy. She and Osuka greet each other. She asks Osuka about her mother, but Osuka is unable to answer, Neon's mother believing
Hibari
 is busy as usual. Osuka refuses her offer to walk her home. Himawari asks about Osuka and her mother, and apologises when it startles her. The masked men kidnap them, a sunflower pendant being left behind. The kidnappers argue about grabbing Himawari in addition to Osuka, and how that complicates ransoming her. Osuka doesn't believe her mother would pay a ransom. Their
leader
 shows up. While leaving the Academy, Kawaki meets with Batora and Kae, who came looking for Himawari when she didn't show up. Kawaki finds it strange, and notices Himawari's pendant on the floor.
 He recalls that Himawari was with Osuka and Neon that time he saw her. Batora knows where Osuka lives, having researched places outside the Academy that Kae might visit. Aniki beats them up for getting an extra hostage. Himawari can tell that Aniki is a shinobi, and is confident he'll be found out, remaining calm. Aniki recognises her as the
Seventh Hokage
's daughter, and having delivered a ransom note to Osuka's residence, decides to sell Himawari to someone who has a grudge against the
Hokage
. Kawaki, Kae, and Batora arrive at Osuka's residence, where the servants read the ransom note. Kawaki snatches it, letting Kae read it. They realise Himawari might have been kidnapped alongside Osuka. Kae wants to check on Neon, and they tell Osuka's servants to contact her parents, who are on set of a new production. Himawari asks Osuka about her mother again, and Osuka says she doesn't care about her anymore, but refuses to elaborate. The kidnappers are concerned about capital punishment for kidnapping Himawari, but she assures them that Naruto wouldn't do that, and might forgive them if they apologise. They explain that they turned to crime because they can't eat, having failed out of the Academy and not lasting in any job. Aniki, who was a
genin
 who ditched a
mission
 he disagreed with, took them in. Aniki attacks a crate behind them, chastising them for giving up so much information, and telling Himawari to give up hope, as they're somewhere people rarely go. At Neon's home, they explain that Himawari and Osuka were likely kidnapped right after parting with her. Neon knew to leave her be when she was upset about her mother, who is an old friend of Neon's mother. Neon was asked to stay with Osuka so she wouldn't lonely over Hibari always being busy with work, but is actually friends with Osuka. Neon has an idea on how to find them. The kidnappers doze off, and Himawari convinces Osuka to attempt an escape. Himawari attacks Aniki, while Osuka ties the other kidnapper's legs. Aniki resists her attacks, and the kidnappers attempt to talk him down on hurting her. Osuka begs him to let Himawari go, reminding him she's the one he wants. Kawaki breaks through the ceiling, recovering the girls. Neon, Kae, and Batora catch up. Aniki creates a
Fire Release wall
 around himself and Kawaki, and attacks him. Kawaki is unhurt by the
Fire Release
, and knocks him out. As the police work the scene, Kawaki returns Himawari's pendant. Himawari checks in on the other two kidnappers, and they ask about her injuries. She remains optimistic about them. Neon explains to Osuka she found them with her drone, and Hibari arrives to check in on her daughter, surprising her. Osuka thought she didn't care because she threw out something that was special to her. Neon explain that their mothers worked together to develop a sensing function for the drone, based on the
Yamanaka clan
's jutsu, to find her. Osuka and Hibari make up, the thing Hibari threw out being expired pudding. Hibari invites them all for pudding. Osuka apologises to everyone. Aniki curses his situation and at an unspecified superior who put him up to it. Meanwhile, a hooded individual is hidden in the trees while observing on Kae.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Kawaki
Yuma Uchida
内田 雄馬
Uchida Yūma
Himawari Uzumaki
Saori Hayami
早見 沙織
Hayami Saori
Kae Yukiwari
Inori Minase
水瀬 いのり
Minase Inori
Batora Kuromori
Isshin Chiba
千葉 一伸
Chiba Isshin
Osuka Kamakura
Rina Hidaka
日高 里菜
Hidaka Rina
Neon Asakusa
Manaka Iwami
石見 舞菜香
Iwami Manaka
Osuka's mother
Minami Tsuda
津田 美波
Tsuda Minami
Neon's mother
Aoi Inase
いなせ あおい
Inase Aoi
Aniki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Oppo
Kosuke Katayama
片山 公輔
Katayama Kōsuke
Teru
Ryo Nishitani
西谷 亮
Nishitani Ryō
Servants
Kumi Takaragi
Natsumi Yamada
宝木 久美
山田 奈都美
Takaragi Kumi
Yamada Natsumi