Hinoko
 (
ヒノコ
) is a
Konohagakure

Anbu
. She strongly prefers to go by her codename:
Soku
 (
鏃
,
Soku
).

Background

While she was a student at the
Academy
, Hinoko invented her own signature technique: the
Chakra Needle
. Because of this accomplishment, she was scouted by the
Anbu
 and upon graduating from the Academy, was immediately recruited as a member.

Personality

Hinoko has a tomboyish personality, liking cooler things and how their names sound over the girly ones, like her own name, going as far as preferring her Anbu code-name over her real one. This personal distaste causes Hinoko to violently burst into anger whenever she is called by her real name.

Despite her obsession with cool-sounding things and personal distaste of girly things, Hinoko is prone to romantic situations as she loudly gushed when
Shikamaru Nara
 approached
Temari
 for romantic purposes. She is also prone to typical "teen girl" verbal tics; adding "like" to the beginning and "you know" to the end of her sentences.

A trait which Shikamaru and her teammate
Rō
 found distressing was her interest in
Gengo
's ideals that shinobi, rather than civilians and the
daimyōs
, should be the ruling class. Throughout the mission she was shown to be tempted by the world Gengo wanted to create even when they weren't in the vicinity of his
Enlightened Ones
. She also has expressed worry that she wouldn't be able to prove herself in times of peace given she was too young to join the
Fourth Shinobi World War
.

Appearance






Hinoko wearing her Anbu mask.



Hinoko is a relatively short young woman with long light-brown hair and blue eyes. While on duty, she wears a Anbu cat-motif mask with 3 whisker markings on each side of the face and an additional 3 lines at the top along with the standard Konoha uniform inclusive of a
flak jacket
. As an adult, she had short hair.

Abilities






Hinoko using her chakra needles.



Hinoko is a very skilled
kunoichi
, supported by the fact that she was scouted by the Anbu while she was still an
Academy student
. Hinoko is presumably skilled in
kenjutsu
 as she carries a
tantō
. She is capable of firing
chakra needles
 from her fingertips, which have a variety of effects including paralysing, killing or even energising the target.

Blank Period

Shikamaru Hiden: A Cloud Drifting in Silent Darkness

Main articles:
Shikamaru Hiden (novel)
 and
Shikamaru Hiden (anime)






Hinoko being converted by Gengo.



When Shikamaru was tasked with infiltrating the
Land of Silence
 with the dual purpose of finding missing shinobi, including
Sai
, and assassinating country head
Gengo
, the Sixth
Hokage
,
Kakashi Hatake
, assigned Hinoko and
Rō
 to aid him. After showing off her abilities, Hinoko and the rest of the group departed at dawn at the hidden back entrance to Konoha. During the mission, Hinoko makes it clear to Shikamaru she doesn't like being called by her real name, lashing out violently at him for doing so. After arriving in the Curtain Village and assessing the situation, Hinoko and the rest of her squad are quickly captured by Gengo's
Enlightened Ones
. During captivity, she is tortured by them.






Hinoko prepares to attack Shikamaru.



When she and the rest are brought before Gengo, he nearly succeeds in placing her and the rest in his
mind-altering genjutsu
 until the timely arrival of Temari and her
Suna
 and Konoha reinforcements break Gengo's hold on them. Hinoko engages the brainwashed shinobi by restraining them despite the injuries she received from torture. After Shikamaru defeats Gengo, having gained a concept of his dangerous genjutsu, Hinoko uses her Chakra Needle to paralyse Gengo's tongue enabling from ever speaking a word again. With the mission accomplished, Hinoko prepares to escort Shikamaru back to Konoha with the rest of the Konoha personnel. Before leaving, Hinoko breaks from her tough exterior and gushes loudly when Shikamaru approaches Temari for romantic reasons.

New Era

Shikamaru Shinden: A Cloud Dancing in Forlorn Falling Petals

Main article:
Shikamaru Shinden: A Cloud Dancing in Forlorn Falling Petals

Shikamaru, now advisor to the
Seventh Hokage
, meets with Rō and Hinoko. Since it's been a while since the three of them were together, Rō guesses that something serious has happened. Shikamaru reports the
Fourth Tsuchikage
's demand for Konoha's secret intel at the recent
Five Kage Summit
. Rō and Hinoko don't see the point of this, as the purpose of secret intel is that it remain secret. Shikamaru suspects that there's something else behind the Tsuchikage's demand and sends Rō and Hinoko to infiltrate
Iwagakure
 to find out what. Because getting into Iwa unnoticed would be difficult even before the current riff with Konoha, Shikamaru meets with the
Third Tsuchikage
 to draw some ninja away from Iwa, thus making Rō and Hinoko's mission easier.

Once inside Iwa, Rō and Hinoko discover that the village's ninja are preparing to invade the
Land of Flowers
 under orders of the
Land of Earth
's
daimyō
. Because this would result in war - something forbidden by the
Shinobi Union
 - the Fourth Tsuchikage needs an excuse to withdraw Iwa from the Union; she expects Konoha to refuse to share its intel, giving her the excuse she needs. Hinoko reports this to Shikamaru, who instructs her and Rō to remain in Iwa and continue to monitor the situation. They send regular updates to Shikamaru about Iwa's ongoing preparations until Shikamaru, through diplomatic channels, is able to stop the invasion. Shikamaru thanks them for all their work once they're back in Konoha and they offer to help him again any time he needs them.

In Other Media

Video Games

Hinoko is a playable character in the following video games:

Game name
Japanese release
English release
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Blazing
14 July 2016
24 August 2016

Trivia

"Soku" (
鏃
) means "arrowhead".