Hiramekarei
 (
ヒラメカレイ
) is one of the mystical
swords
 of the
Seven Swordsmen of the Mist
, that has been passed down from generation to generation amongst the group's members since the
First Mizukage
's era.

Appearance






Hiramekarei bandaged.



Hiramekarei features a wide, flat blade with two curved indentations near its base, creating a sort of cross-guard. Two handles are connected to one another by a short length of cord, earning it the title of "
twinsword
" (
双刀
,
sōtō
). The overall sword looks like a
flounder
 fish in shape. When not in use, Hiramekarei is wrapped in bandages.

Abilities

Hiramekarei is capable of storing
chakra
. With the command "Hiramekarei Unleashing" (
ヒラメカレイ解放
,
Hiramekarei Kaihō
,
Viz:
 Hiramekarei Release), the stored chakra is emitted from the holes at the tip of the blade
  causing the bandages it is typically wrapped with to unravel. The chakra rapidly coats the sword and can be shaped into various weapons, such as a hammer or a long-sword. The more chakra that is stored in Hiramekarei, the larger the size of the manifested weapon.
 In the anime,
Kagura Karatachi
 demonstrated that the stored chakra can also used to change Hiramekarei's physical shape, expanding the blade many times its original size.

It can also create a large amount of light blue,
fish bone-like crystals
 that can inflict great damage and restrain the target's movements. Hiramekarei can also split into two swords, each with a single handle,
 and in the anime, the feature allows for two different individuals wielding it at once.

Hammer form.
Long-sword form.
Twinsword form.

Utilised Techniques

Bloody Mist Sword Art: Bone Mutilation

Trivia

This is the only one of the seven swords not to have a direct kanji translation, due to its name being written in katakana.

Both hirame and karei are Japanese names for species of flounder. The flounders with their eyes on the left side of their body are called hirame (
鮃, 平目, 比目魚
), while those with their eyes on the right side are called karei (
鰈
). Befitting its name, Hiramekarei is shaped like these fish.

When the previous generation of the Seven Swordsmen are
reincarnated
, only
Mangetsu Hōzuki
 and
Fuguki Suikazan
 do not have their swords as both Hiramekarei and
Samehada
 now have modern owners. Fuguki is known to have been the wielder of Samehada, and though Mangetsu was famously capable of wielding all seven swords, it's presumed he would have primarily wielded the last remaining sword, Hiramekarei.

In the anime,
Boruto Uzumaki
 briefly wielded one half of Hiramekarei.

References