Hiruzen Sarutobi
 (
猿飛ヒルゼン
,
Sarutobi Hiruzen
) was the
Third
Hokage
 (
三代目火影
,
Sandaime Hokage
,
literally meaning:
 Third Fire Shadow) of
Konohagakure
. A disciple of the village's two previous Hokage, Hiruzen was a powerful ninja, hailed as a "
God of Shinobi
" and renowned as
The Professor
 (
プロフェッサー
,
Purofessā
). Though he was only ever directly the teacher of the
Sannin
, generations of Konoha shinobi benefited from his wisdom during his lifetime.

Background

Hiruzen was born the son of
Sasuke Sarutobi
. The
Sarutobi clan
 was one of the first clans to settle in the newly-created
Konohagakure
, where Hiruzen struck up a friendship with the
Shimura clan
's
Danzō Shimura
. Hiruzen was part of the first generation of ninja produced by Konoha as he,
Homura Mitokado
, and
Koharu Utatane
 were placed under the tutelage of
Tobirama Senju
. Hiruzen early on displayed prodigious talent in the ninja arts, earning him additional training from
Hashirama Senju
, the First
Hokage
.
 At the same time, Danzō became jealous of Hiruzen's skills and growing recognition, starting a one-sided rivalry in an effort to surpass him. At one point Hashirama and Tobirama talked to Hiruzen of the importance of believing in and protecting those in the village, telling him he would one day be Hokage.






Hiruzen is appointed Hokage.



During the
First Shinobi World War
, Tobirama, by that time the Second Hokage, led a
team
 consisting of Hiruzen, Homura, Koharu, Danzō,
Kagami Uchiha
, and
Torifu Akimichi
. During a mission they started to be pursued by
Kumogakure
's
Kinkaku Force
, an enemy that somebody would need to distract and inevitably die at the hands of in order for the rest of the team to escape. Hiruzen volunteered to be the decoy, boasting that, as the strongest of their group, he stood the best chance of surviving the encounter; nevertheless, he asked Danzō to look after the others. Tobirama volunteered himself instead, and before going to his death he appointed Hiruzen as Third Hokage.

In the anime, Hiruzen permitted Danzō to create
Root
 - a more ruthless subdivision of the
Anbu
 under Danzō's exclusive control - shortly after he became Hokage in order to balance the shortcomings of his empathetic rule. For years he had ignored Root's questionable foreign ops, its abduction of children, and the actions it took against Konoha personnel, Hiruzen included.






Hiruzen with his students.



At some point, Hiruzen married
Biwako
 and they had a son,
Asuma
, and at least one other child who became an Anbu.
 Hiruzen also started leading his own team of new
Academy
 graduates consisting of
Jiraiya
,
Orochimaru
, and
Tsunade
.
 Although he was close with all of his students, Hiruzen had the highest hopes for
Orochimaru
, a genius like himself who, after the deaths of his parents, was only further motivated to have a deep impact on the world.
 Hiruzen led Konoha's forces through the
Second
 and
Third Shinobi World Wars
; in the anime, his choosing to end the Third Shinobi World War by signing a peace treaty with
Iwagakure
 despite the losses Konoha suffered incensed Danzō, prompting Hiruzen to step down as Hokage against the village's protests.

Hiruzen had long hoped that Orochimaru would succeed him as Hokage but, despite his best efforts, he could never convince him of the
Will of Fire
: that Konoha was a family that the Hokage had to risk everything to keep safe.
 Unable to choose Orochimaru, Hiruzen considered Jiraiya as his successor, but Jiraiya did not believe he was responsible enough.
 Hiruzen ultimately settled on Jiraiya's former student,
Minato Namikaze
, who had proven himself time and again during the Third Shinobi World War.
 Hiruzen assisted Minato with the transition of power by advising him on how to handle individuals and other village matters. He even retained some of his own
Anbu
, several of which he assigned as security while
Kushina Uzumaki
, the
jinchūriki
 of the
Nine-Tails
, gave birth.






Hiruzen leads a charge against the Nine-Tails.



Despite their precautions, the Nine-Tails escaped and
attacked the village
. Hiruzen led the village's defence until Minato arrived to remove the Nine-Tails to a safe distance. Hiruzen followed and, cut off by the
Adamantine Sealing Chains
, could only watch as Minato and Kushina gave their lives to
seal
 the Nine-Tails into their newborn son,
Naruto
. Minato did not have time to tell Hiruzen how the Nine-Tails had escaped, instead using the final moments of his life to ask Konoha, via Hiruzen, to think of Naruto as a hero who saved the village and not the container of the monster that killed so many. Hiruzen did so, but the villagers proved unable to follow Minato's wishes, prompting Hiruzen, now the village's Hokage once more, to outlaw any mention of the Nine-Tails, an effort to protect Naruto from their misguided hate.
 He also gave Naruto his mother's surname in order to hide his relation to Minato from Minato's enemies.






Hiruzen allowing Orochimaru to escape.



Hiruzen eventually started investigating a number of disappearances throughout Konoha. In the anime, he followed a lead provided by
Kakashi Hatake
,
 which ultimately led him to discover that Orochimaru was behind it all. Hiruzen was dismayed not only by Orochimaru's role or that he was experimenting on those he kidnapped, but also his reasons: to create an
Eternal Youth and Immortality Technique
. He attempted to apprehend Orochimaru, but could not bring himself to strike down his favourite student and allowed him to escape.
 From examining what Orochimaru left behind, a
young boy
 imbued with Hashirama Senju's
Wood Release
 was discovered, and over the years the boy became one of Hiruzen's top Anbu operatives. (In the anime, the boy was previously discovered by Danzō, and Hiruzen negotiated the boy's release into Hiruzen's care.)






Itachi begs Hiruzen to protect Sasuke.



Because Minato never had the opportunity to explain the cause of the Nine-Tails' attack, Konoha's leadership came to suspect a member of the
Uchiha clan
 was responsible due to the
Sharingan
's ability to control the Nine-Tails. The Uchiha resented this suspicion and began planning a coup d'état, something reported to Hiruzen and the
Konoha Council
 by
Itachi Uchiha
. Hiruzen attempted to peacefully resolve the conflict but negotiations consistently stalled. Danzō eventually stepped in without Hiruzen's knowledge and ordered Itachi to
slaughter the Uchiha
.
 Hiruzen only learned of the mission afterwards when Itachi reported its successful completion. Before needing to publicly leave the village as a criminal in order to hide Konoha's involvement in the Uchiha's destruction, Itachi asked Hiruzen to look after his younger brother,
Sasuke
, the only Uchiha he could not bring himself to kill. Hiruzen agreed.
 In the anime, Hiruzen also promised not to change the
village barrier
's formula, enabling Itachi to sneak in from time to time to watch Sasuke from afar. Danzō's role in the Uchiha's assassination was not something Hiruzen could abide, and as such he removed Danzō from the
Konoha Council
 and ordered Root be disbanded.

About five years after the Nine Tails Fox's attack on the village, Hiruzen had a disagreement with his son Asuma, leading to the latter to leave to pursue his personal interests. In the anime, Hiruzen came to welcome people in a refugee camp to Konoha. Hiruzen was visited by an orphaned refugee
Mugino
, delivering a gift for gratitude. After anticipating his actions and noticing the young orphan was branded with a
cursed seal
, Hiruzen allowed Mugino to stab him, catching the Kiri-nin watching over Mugino off guard and swiftly subduing them. Hiruzen comforted Mugino and welcomed him to Konoha with open arms whenever he was ready.

Personality

Hiruzen is a firm believer in the
Will of Fire
, which holds that all the people of Konoha are a family and that the Hokage is chiefly responsible for that family's well-being. Throughout his tenure, Hiruzen lives up to the Will of Fire by being available for Konoha's villagers and shinobi during their time of need, making decisions to the betterment of as many people as possible, and providing his wisdom and guidance whenever he can. His delicate, thoughtful approach to not only issues within the village but also his interactions with foreign powers has given Hiruzen the reputation of being soft, something the
Konoha Council
 spends much of its time trying to rectify. Nevertheless, Hiruzen's kind and pacifist ways are widely valued by Konoha's residents and even his rival
Kage
, and for those reasons his eventual death is regretted by many. However, Hiruzen was not entirely for his softness as he allowed Danzō to form an Anbu faction of his own, to handle the dark side of Konoha's actions.

Although he loved all of Konoha, Hiruzen held his
students
 especially dear, believing they were the village's future and, as such, must be cultivated and protected. He favoured Orochimaru, seeing in him a prodigy similar to himself whose contributions to the village could someday be greater than his own. Even when Orochimaru increasingly went astray and then finally defected from Konoha, Hiruzen could never abandon his attachments to Orochimaru,
 instead blaming himself for not being a better teacher. When he is
reincarnated
, he reflects on his life and finds it similarly flawed: he feels responsible for Danzō's taking on of the village's darkness, believing Danzō would not have turned out so badly had he been more willing to make the difficult decisions; he believes that some of the village's - and even the world's - problems could have been avoided had he led with a firmer hand.
 Hiruzen's own son,
Asuma
, was defiant towards Hiruzen's philosophies during his youth, but eventually sees the merits in valuing future generations after Hiruzen's death.

Despite his reputation and selflessness, Hiruzen is not without faults: He is somewhat lecherous. While more subtle about than his student, he and Jiraiya bonded over their shared
desire
 to spy on naked women and talking to young girls was his favourite "hobby".
 Likewise, he fell victim to Naruto's
Sexy Technique
 on more than one occasion and suspects he would be defeated by the
Harem Technique
 as well.

Appearance

Hiruzen's appearance during the First Shinobi World War.
Hiruzen's Hokage attire.
Hiruzen's shinobi attire.
1/3

The only consistent physical feature Hiruzen has displayed has been his below-average stature, all his other attributes having changed over the years: during his youth he was tan-skinned and had dark brown, spiked hair, adding a small goatee to his look after becoming Hokage; towards the end of his life his skin is lighter, his hair is grey, his face is gaunter, and he has the wrinkles and liver spots of old age. He initially had a single line running vertically under the outer corners of each eye, which stretched down into his face as he aged until they reached his cheeks.

During the First Shinobi World War, he wore grey
shinobi battle armour
 common to the time period, with heavy protection all over his body. He starts wearing much lighter combat attire at some point, consisting of a black jumpsuit, mesh segments over the lower portions of his limbs, and a green
gauntlet
 that covered much of his right arm. He also wore an armoured hood with a bandanna-like
forehead protector
 over this, tied with two long straps.
 Across the back is written "Third Hokage" which is replaced with the kanji for "fire" (
火
,
hi
) during his brief retirement.
 When not in combat, he usually wears the official uniform — the customary hat and haori with a red, full-length kimono that is tied using a white sash. He often smokes during his spare time.

Abilities






Hiruzen using the Shadow Clone Technique.



Hiruzen was a natural prodigy, hailed as a "
God of Shinobi
" and was the strongest shinobi produced from his clan.
 He demonstrated
ninjutsu
 talent that surpassed that of his teacher the
Second Hokage
 from a young age which eventually led to him being chosen as the next Hokage.
 He became the most powerful of
Kage
 during his lifetime,
 and was once considered the strongest Hokage in history.
 While his battle prowess deteriorated greatly due to his old age and ultimately contributed to his death, he was still able to fend off
Orochimaru
 along with the combined might of the
reincarnated
 First and Second Hokage (although their power was diminished from the reincarnation). Ultimately, he single-handedly
sealed away
 the two past Hokage as well as Orochimaru's arms. Orochimaru openly believed that had Hiruzen been even ten years younger, the Hokage would've killed his former student.

Chakra and Physical Prowess






Hiruzen in hand-to-hand combat.



In the anime, Hiruzen was said to have immense
chakra
,
 and even in his old age, his chakra was strong enough to crack stone upon moulding it.
 His reserves diminished in later years as even splitting his chakra between any more than two
shadow clones
 was a great risk for him. His reduced chakra levels were offset with precise chakra control, needing only the minimum amount of chakra to use techniques to their full potency.
 Despite his old age, his reaction time and sensory perception were still good enough to defend himself, even when
robbed of his sight
.
 Hiruzen could even lay
explosive tags
 on high-level opponents without them noticing.

Ninjutsu






Hiruzen using the Dead Demon Consuming Seal.



Hiruzen also was renowned as
The Professor
 (
プロフェッサー
,
Purofessā
), due to his unprecedented versatility in ninjutsu, having mastered all the skillsets and combat forms of the shinobi arts.
 Hiruzen was reputed for his advanced knowledge and skill of all techniques to ever exist within Konoha, including the many
Hiden
 techniques,
 and able to use each of them with the highest level of power and control.
 He could instantly deduce the impending technique simply from the
hand seals
.
 Even when he encountered something new, as in the case of
Truth-Seeking Balls
, he could discern their attributes and limitations from a brief observation. Hiruzen was well-noted for having personally created a variety of innovative techniques, preparing himself for any situation and was also capable of using various techniques simultaneously for more versatile and with longer effects.

His noteworthy skillset included
viewing things from afar
,
 creating a
barrier
 powerful enough to contain the
Ten-Tails
 alongside other Kage-level shinobi,
 and
sensing
 the presence of individuals by their chakra.

Nature Transformation






Hiruzen's clones using all five elements simultaneously.



Hiruzen was one of the few individuals who could perform all five basic
nature transformations
 and mastered them with equal proficiency and raw power. He could also use
Yin
 and
Yang Release
.
 His prowess could intercept an opponent's elemental attack and produce the respective
counterbalancing
 nature.
 Hiruzen favoured
Fire Release
 and was proud of the outstanding power of his
Fire Release: Fire Dragon Flame Bullet
 technique, which was known as one of the strongest Fire Release techniques in the world.
 In the anime he could also shoot
a barrage of small fire blasts
.
 With
Earth Release
, he could create a
protective wall of mud
 that was powerful enough to block the Second Hokage's
Water Release: Water Dragon Bullet Technique
. In the anime, he could create a
river of mud
 to knock an opponent off their feet, and use the same mud to create a
dragon head
 to shoot a volley of mud balls that can be infused with
flames
 for more damage.
 He could likewise produce powerful streams of
Lightning
,
Water
, and
Wind Release
 respectively.

Bukijutsu






Hiruzen utilising his Shuriken Shadow Clone Technique.



Hiruzen regularly used
shuriken
 in combat - both the standard size and the larger
fūma shuriken
.
 By using the
Shuriken Shadow Clone Technique
, he could create copies of these shuriken, allowing him to bombard a target with thousands of projectiles while simultaneously letting him conserve on his own supply, which won't need to be much.
 In the anime, Hiruzen was similarly shown utilising his surroundings like shuriken, such as
roof tiles
.

Hiruzen's personal
summon
 and partner
Enma
, could
transform
 into an extendable and/or expandable staff that was as hard as a diamond. The staff was Hiruzen's weapon of choice and wielded it with great proficiency, though its weight became a great burden to him in his later years.

Fūinjutsu

Hiruzen could perform a
suicide-murder technique
 that will seal away a target's soul with sacrifice of their own. However, he can bypass this by using a shadow clone to be sacrificed instead.
 He was also one of few people who could
remove seals
 as powerful as the
Five Elements Seal
.

Stats

Databook

Ninjutsu

Taijutsu

Genjutsu

Intelligence

Strength

Speed

Stamina

Hand seals

Total

First

5

5

5

5

3

3

3

5

34

Second

5

5

5

5

3

3

3

5

34

Part I

Prologue — Land of Waves

Main article:
Prologue — Land of Waves






Hiruzen watching Naruto.



When Naruto fails the
Academy
's graduation exam yet again, Hiruzen takes Naruto's instructor,
Iruka Umino
, aside and advises him to be compassionate towards Naruto because of his lack of parents, something Iruka has had similar experiences with. When Naruto shortly afterwards breaks into the
Hokage Residence
 and steals the
Scroll of Seals
 (and also defeats Hiruzen with the
Sexy Technique
), Hiruzen has no choice but to mobilise a search party to apprehend Naruto. From
observing
 events, Hiruzen learns of Naruto's manipulation by
Mizuki
 and watches as Iruka finally shows kindness towards Naruto by protecting him from Mizuki. He calls off the search party when it becomes clear Naruto will return, but Hiruzen worries that Naruto's learning of the
Multiple Shadow Clone Technique
 from the Scroll will risk the Nine-Tails' escape from his body.

From his concern over the Nine-Tails as well as his disappointment that one of Naruto's first accomplishments as a
genin
 is to invent the
Harem Technique
, Hiruzen assigns
Kakashi Hatake
 as Naruto's
team
 leader so that Kakashi can guide him appropriately, as well as look over one of Naruto's teammates,
Sasuke Uchiha
. Despite Kakashi's efforts, Naruto remains obstinate, complaining to Hiruzen about how easy their first
D-rank

mission
 was. When Naruto is unwilling to listen to explanations of how missions are assigned according to rank and skill level - both of which Naruto has little of at the moment - Hiruzen agrees to give the team a
C-rank
 mission: escorting
Tazuna
 to the
Land of Waves
.

Chūnin Exams

Main article:
Chūnin Exams






Hiruzen calls a meeting.



Hiruzen calls together the village's
jōnin
 team leaders and informs them that Konoha will be hosting the next
Chūnin Exams
, an opportunity for their genin-charges to be promoted to
chūnin
. He asks that those jōnin assembled who believe their students are ready for the challenge of the exam submit their students' names. He begins with the team leaders of the Academy's most recent graduates and is surprised that all of the
Rookie Nine
 are deemed suitable by their instructors; he agrees to allow them to enter despite Iruka's protests.






Hiruzen addressing the genin that passed.



Hiruzen is called to the
Forest of Death
 during the Exams' second stage by its proctor,
Anko Mitarashi
. She reports Orochimaru's infiltration of the Exams and his warnings to not call off the Exams due to his appearance. Suspecting that Orochimaru is after Sasuke Uchiha, Hiruzen has no choice but to allow things to proceed as planned. He watches the preliminary matches, noting the growth of not only Naruto and Sasuke but all of Konoha's genin. Once the preliminaries conclude, he presides over the assignment of first round match-ups in the finals before they adjourn.

In the month prior to the finals, Hiruzen grows increasingly worried. Not only is he unsure of what Orochimaru and his underlings are planning, but it's also apparent that one of the rival
hidden villages
 is conspiring against Konoha as well, possibly in tandem with Orochimaru. What's more, Hiruzen does not believe that he, nor anyone else in Konoha for that matter, has the skills necessary to meet Orochimaru in battle. To clear his head, he visits his grandson's,
Konohamaru
's, class and is reminded of how important protecting the village and its citizens is to him.

When the finals begin, Hiruzen sits and watches with the
Fourth Kazekage
, the only other Kage whose village has representatives competing. Hiruzen, as host, remains pleasant towards the Kazekage and tries to assure him that there are no issues when the schedule for the finals increasingly does not go as planned.

Konoha Crush

Main article:
Konoha Crush






Hiruzen clashing with Orochimaru.



The last match of the first round of the finals is interrupted by an
invasion of Konoha
. Hiruzen is taken hostage and separated from his bodyguards by the Kazekage. Hiruzen tries to negotiate with the Kazekage until he realises it is actually Orochimaru in disguise. Orochimaru wants to fight and kill Hiruzen, his former teacher, and has his
followers
 erect a
barrier
 so that the
Anbu
 cannot come to Hiruzen's defence. Hiruzen is glad that nobody will interrupt them and removes his robes, revealing his combat attire underneath. Orochimaru decides he wants Hiruzen to share in the experience of fighting one's predecessor's and as such
reincarnates
 the
First
 and
Second Hokage
.

The Hokage greet Hiruzen in the brief moments before Orochimaru suppresses their personalities. Hiruzen attacks, but he has difficulty overcoming their defences and he must summon Enma to help block the First's
Wood Release
. He and Enma try to strike Orochimaru directly, but the Hokage block him. Despite failing to reach Orochimaru, Hiruzen is able to plant
exploding tags
 on the Hokage's leg, but their reincarnated bodies cause them to quickly regenerate. Realising he has few options left, Hiruzen prepares to use the
Dead Demon Consuming Seal
. Orochimaru takes him by surprise before he can do anything by removing his own face, revealing a
new body
, the completion of his research and the same fate he has planned for Sasuke.






Hiruzen struggling to seal Orochimaru's soul.



Hiruzen is disgusted by the levels Orochimaru has sunk to and his own responsibility in allowing Orochimaru to escape years earlier. In order to rectify the mistakes he's made at long last, Hiruzen makes two shadow clones that first catch the two Hokage and then use the Dead Demon Consuming Seal to remove their souls. The Hokage's personalities return to them briefly and they apologise for the hassle they've caused, just as Hiruzen apologises to them for the prison he's sentenced them to: their souls are consumed by the
Shinigami
. Orochimaru is amused by their defeat, unaware of what's happening, and bids Hiruzen to try the same on him. Hiruzen and Enma disarm him of his
Kusanagi
 and Hiuruzen starts performing the seal on him. When Orochimaru senses his soul's removal, he summons the Kusanagi back to him, causing it to lodge in Hiruzen despite Enma's attempts to intercept it.






Hiruzen dying with a smile.



Although stabbing Hiruzen has stopped the removal of his soul, Orochimaru cannot move in order to finish Hiruzen off. Orochimaru encourages him to die, but Hiruzen, doomed to die anyway for invoking the Shinigami, ignores him, instead trying to muster up the strength to finish sealing Orochimaru. After an hour passes with no progress, Hiruzen accepts the fact that he won't be able to complete the seal. He decides to do what little he can to put an end to Orochimaru's plans and protect the village: he has the Shinigami seal Orochimaru's arms, preventing their use. As Orochimaru curses him, Hiruzen dies smiling, hoping that he will see Orochimaru again in the next life.

Part II

Fourth Shinobi World War: Climax

Main article:
Fourth Shinobi World War: Climax






The four Hokage are reincarnated.



Orochimaru
 releases the souls of the first four Hokage from the stomach of the Shinigami, an act that also restores his arms. At
Sasuke Uchiha
's request he then
reincarnates
 the Hokage. Hiruzen worries that Orochimaru now plans to use him to destroy Konoha, but is instead questioned by Sasuke about the
Uchiha Clan Downfall
. Hiruzen confirms the truth of what
Itachi Uchiha
 did and explains that he only did so on the condition that Hiruzen would keep Sasuke safe in the aftermath. From hearing about what has transpired since his death - Sasuke killing
Danzō Shimura
 and
Madara Uchiha
 emerging to start the
Fourth Shinobi World War
 - Hiruzen feels guilty that maybe things could have been avoided had he taken different actions while he was alive.






The Hokage arrive on the battlefield.



Hearing from the Hokage and reflecting on his own experiences, Sasuke decides he doesn't want Konoha to be destroyed, as is Madara's current intention. Orochimaru releases the Hokage from his control so that they can help in this goal, and they set out for the site of the
Allied Shinobi Forces
' battle with the
Ten-Tails
. When they arrive, the Hokage erect a
barrier
 around the Ten-Tails to confine it. Hiruzen must remain with the barrier to maintain it, so he can only watch as
Obito Uchiha
 seals the Ten-Tails into his body, becoming its
jinchūriki
.

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Main article:
Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki






Hiruzen attacks Obito.



With his new power, Obito rips down the barrier, finally allowing Hiruzen to participate in the fight. From Obito's display it is obvious to Hiruzen that he is stronger than even the
First Hokage
. He therefore personally engages Obito so that nobody needs to put their lives at risk, taking advantage of the fact that he's already dead to analyse Obito's abilities. By observing Obito's
Truth-Seeking Balls
 he theorises that they are similar to the
Third Tsuchikage
's
kekkei tōta
 in that they are a combination of multiple
nature transformations
. He also postulates that the Truth-Seeking Balls have limits to the duration of their malleability, but his upper body is destroyed immediately after that.






Hiruzen saves Naruto from the Ten-Tails.



It takes Hiruzen a great deal of time for his body to regenerate. When he finally does, he summons
Enma
, has him
transform
, and then quickly saves
Naruto Uzumaki
 from the Ten-Tails' tree form's chakra-absorbing roots. When Orochimaru later arrives on the battlefield, they join together to help the Allies in the counter-offensive against Obito, first by blocking and cutting back more and more of the tree's roots and branches, then by assisting in pulling the
tailed beasts
 from Obito's body. Their combined efforts succeed and Obito is defeated.






Hiruzen battles against Tobi.



The Allied Shinobi Forces are shortly afterwards attacked by
Tobi
. With everyone too tired from the prolonged fighting to defend themselves, Hiruzen and four of his
shadow clones
 arrive to help,
counterbalancing
 Tobi's elemental attacks with their own. Tobi withdraws once the
Infinite Tsukuyomi
 is about to be cast, having completed its job of distracting the Allies.

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Main article:
Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes






Hiruzen's soul departs to the Pure Land.



As the world is wrapped up by
God: Nativity of a World of Trees
, Hiruzen, unaffected because he is dead, tries to free Tsunade but fails. He and the other Hokage converge at the location of a powerful chakra signature, but find only Madara Uchiha's lower half, from which emerges the
Sage of the Six Paths
. Combining efforts with the spirits of the other dead
Kage
, they summon
Team 7
, Madara, and the tailed beasts back from
Kaguya's dimension
. With the world saved, the Sage returns all the Kage to the
Pure Land
. As his soul ascends, Hiruzen entrusts the future to Team 7.

Legacy

Hiruzen is only one of many Konoha ninja to die in the village's defence during the
Konoha Crush
. However, a special ceremony to mourn Hiruzen is held, which many of Konoha's ninja attend;
Jiraiya
 does not, opting to reminisce about Hiruzen privately.
Asuma
, while not always agreeing with his father's ideals, has managed to see him in a better light as a Hokage and a great father two years after the funeral, shortly before Asuma's own death. Hiruzen is quickly replaced as Hokage by
Tsunade
, who, during her early days in office, notes how many fine shinobi the village produced under Hiruzen's guidance and makes a point to continue his practices during her own term. As Jiraiya was nearing his end at the hands of
Pain
, one of his regrets was his failure to save his teacher.  When Naruto becomes Hokage years later, he lives by the
Will of Fire
 just as Hiruzen did.

In Other Media

Novels

Itachi Shinden: Book of Bright Light

Main article:
Itachi Shinden: Book of Bright Light

Hiruzen makes an appearance in this novel.

Video Games

Hiruzen Sarutobi is a playable character in the following video games:

Game name
Japanese release
English release
Jumputi Heroes
28 March 2018
Naruto Mobile
2016
2016
Naruto Shippūden: Ninja Destiny 2
24 April 2008
15 September 2009
Naruto Shippūden: Ninja Destiny 3
28 April 2009
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja 4
5 April 2007
24 March 2009
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja 5
20 December 2007
27 November 2009
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Blazing
14 July 2016
24 August 2016
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 3
18 April 2013
5 March 2013
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 4
4 February 2016
9 February 2016
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm Generations
23 February 2012
13 March 2012
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm Revolution
11 September 2014
16 September 2014
Naruto to Boruto: Shinobi Striker
30 August 2018
31 August 2018
Naruto x Boruto: Ninja Tribes
June 2019
June 2019
Naruto x Boruto: Ninja Voltage
22 November 2017
22 November 2017
Naruto x Boruto: Ultimate Ninja Storm Connections
16 November 2023
17 November 2023
Naruto: Gekitō Ninja Taisen! 3
20 November 2004
Naruto: Gekitō Ninja Taisen! 4
21 November 2005
Naruto: Ninja Council 2
29 April 2004
10 October 2006
Naruto: Ninja Council 3
27 April 2006
22 May 2007
Naruto: Path of the Ninja 2
13 July 2006
14 October 2008
Naruto: Rise of a Ninja
30 October 2007
Naruto: Shinobi Collection
2014
Naruto: Shinobi Collection Shippū Ranbu
27 July 2015
Naruto: The Broken Bond
18 November 2008
Naruto: Ultimate Ninja 2
30 September 2004
12 June 2007
Naruto: Ultimate Ninja 3
22 December 2005
25 March 2008
Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Heroes 2: The Phantom Fortress
30 March 2006
24 June 2008
Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Online
14 April 2013
20 July 2016
Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Storm
15 January 2009
4 November 2008

Trivia

Springtime of Youth

The
Springtime of Youth
 wiki
 has an article about this topic:

Hiruzen Sarutobi

Hiruzen's clan name "Sarutobi", inspired by
Sarutobi Sasuke
, means "monkey jump" (
猿飛
), further supported by his Summoning Technique which summons Enma. Tobirama also nicknamed him "Monkey" (
サル
,
Saru
). Hiruzen's first name could come from
mountain with same name
 located on the border of Okayama and Tottori prefectures on the main island of Honshu in Japan.

Many aspects of his character were borrowed from the Chinese literature classic
Journey to the West
. Hiruzen's summon, Enma, bears a very strong resemblance to
Sun Wukong
 (
孫悟空
,
Son Gokū
), the protagonist of the novel, and Hiruzen's chosen weapon was identical to the Monkey King's magical staff.

In the
Live Spectacle Naruto
, the role of Hiruzen was played by Kazuhiro Imagawa.

Hiruzen's ghost is briefly seen in
Naruto: Shippūden
 episode 129
.

During his battle with Orochimaru, Hiruzen's likeness on the
Hokage Rock
 cracks across the face. While the crack is fairly prominent due to its size, it doesn't always show up in the anime, due either to a bad angle or a mistake by the animators.

Masashi Kishimoto
 originally planned for Hiruzen to be a dog, but dumped the idea for being "too weird".

Studio Pierrot's Settei sheets of Hiruzen show that he was 140cm around the time Konoha was founded, 145cm around the time the Shinobi Training Institution was created, and 166cm when Tobirama died.

According to the databook(s):

His favourite foods were
hijiki
 (which he shared with
Danzō Shimura
) and sardine
fish balls
, while his least favourite food was
narazuke
.

His desired opponent was a grown-up
Konohamaru
.

His favourite phrase was
Absolute Truth
 (
真諦
,
Shintai
).

His hobby was chatting with young girls.

Quotes

(About
Naruto
) "
He has combined shadow clones with his own invention, the Sexy Technique. What a foolish ninja technique… and he could probably get me with it, too.
"

(To the
Academy
 students) "
You only get one life. There's no need to choose an impossible path. It's fine to live as long as you like and die. However… protecting a precious person… you must not forget this no matter what path you choose.
"

(To Orochimaru) "
To me, Konoha isn't just an organisation. Every year there are a lot of ninja born and raised in Konoha… They live, fight to protect this village and what is precious they would go to their death. Even if we are not related by blood, those of the village like these are, to me, my most precious, most important… family!
"

(Last words) "
When the tree leaves dance, one shall find flames. The
fire's shadow
 will illuminate the village, and once again, tree leaves shall bud anew.
"

References