"
Hiruko vs. Two Kunoichi!
" (
ヒルコVS二人の女忍者
,
Hiruko Bāsasu Futari no Kunoichi
) is episode 20 of the
Naruto: Shippūden
 anime.

Synopsis

Naruto
 chases after
Deidara
, unaware that Deidara is baiting him. However,
Kakashi
 also tags along, telling
Sakura
 and
Chiyo
 to handle
Sasori
 until
Team Guy
 manages to return. Wanting to fight Naruto alone, Deidara tells Kakashi that Sasori is much stronger than him, and therefore he should go back in order to aid Sakura and Chiyo. Naruto agrees, but Kakashi remains. Kakashi decides to use his
Sharingan
 against Deidara since the latter managed to defeat
Gaara
, who was a
Kage
. Deidara finds Naruto's behaviour odd, stating that with the exception of Gaara, they have killed two
Jinchūriki
 before, and that no one came to their rescue; he adds that most people were actually glad to be rid of them. He understands that Naruto must have some desire to save another of his kind, but finds the notion pathetic.

Back inside the
Akatsuki
 hideout, Chiyo explains that the Sasori they see in front of them is not Sasori's actual body, but in fact a puppet named
Hiruko
. Sakura wonders where Sasori is, as she does not see someone behind Hiruko pulling his strings, and is shocked to learn that Sasori is operating Hiruko from within. Chiyo explains that since puppet masters are not good at close combat and rely on their puppets to attack, this leaves the puppeteers themselves vulnerable, hence why Sasori created Hiruko, to counteract that weakness. Chiyo reveals that Sasori was once a master puppeteer in
Sunagakure
, but at some point began to transform human corpses into
human puppets
, which Sasori considered a form of art. The puppet they see in front of them, Hiruko, is actually the body of a
shinobi
 from a neighbouring village whose corpse Sasori used. Chiyo tells Sakura that she joined the
Kazekage Rescue Team
 believing she could stop Sasori, as she knew how Hiruko operated, but reveals that Sasori has improved and refined the puppet. Nonetheless, they believe they have the advantage and Chiyo shares a secret with Sakura, which Sasori is unable to hear.

Finally ready to start their battle, Chiyo and Sakura rush at Sasori/Hiruko. Sasori uses
Prepared Puppet: Eight Waves of Needles
, which causes
poison
-laced
senbon
 to rapidly fire out of Hiruko's mouth. Both Chiyo and Sakura are able to dodge every single senbon. Sasori resorts to releasing Hiruko's arm and launching it as a projectile, which
releases even more poison-laced senbon
. Once more, Chiyo and Sakura are able to avoid every single one of them, to Sasori's disbelief. While he is able to understand Chiyo's masterful dodging, as she is an expert puppeteer herself, he is unable to comprehend how Sakura was
able to do so as well
. While Chiyo stands idly, Sakura rushes towards Hiruko. Sasori attempts to jab her using Hiruko's poison-tipped tail but his attack is blocked by Chiyo, leaving Hiruko vulnerable. Using her
Chakra Enhanced Strength
, Sakura
lands a massive blow
 on Hiruko, destroying the human puppet. Sasori manages to get out of the rubble, but keeps his face covered. Chiyo demands that he turn around and face them, claiming she waited 20 years and travelled all this way just to see her grandson's face once more.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Maile Flanagan
Sakura Haruno
Chie Nakamura
中村 千絵
Nakamura Chie
Kate Higgins
Kakashi Hatake
Kazuhiko Inoue
井上 和彦
Inoue Kazuhiko
Dave Wittenberg
Chiyo
Ikuko Tani
谷 育子
Tani Ikuko
Barbara Goodson
Hiruko
Yutaka Aoyama
青山 穣
Aoyama Yutaka
JB Blanc
Deidara
Katsuhiko Kawamoto
川本 克彦
Kawamoto Katsuhiko
Roger Craig Smith