The Hokage Rock.



The
Hokage Rock
 (
火影岩
,
Hokage-iwa
) is a mountain overlooking
Konohagakure
 that has all the faces of the
Hokage
 carved into the stone. It was envisioned by
Hashirama Senju
 as a symbol that the Hokage would always watch over the village.
 The Hokage Rock is easily the most identifiable feature in the village, such that when the village is destroyed during
Pain's Assault
, only the presence of the Hokage Rock (undamaged by the destruction) confirms to others that the rubble was once Konoha.
 Being such an icon makes it a prime target for pranks, with both
Naruto Uzumaki
 and, years later,
Boruto Uzumaki
 defacing it in order to gain attention.

Adding a Hokage's face to the monument apparently takes time, as the
Fifth Hokage
's face is not added until some time during the timeskip.
 The anime suggests it doesn't actually take too long, as the
Stone Carver
 adds first
Danzō Shimura
's face and then
Kakashi Hatake
's face to the monument prematurely, in turn forcing him to remove their faces once they are not officially given the position.
 In
Kakashi Hiden
, the
Sixth Hokage
's face is added to the Hokage Rock before he even agrees to accept the responsibilities of the office, something that Naruto complains is confusing. In
Boruto: Two Blue Vortex
, in turn, it is suggested that the face of the candidate for the position will not be carved into the Hokage Rock until they are officially inaugurated.





The Hokage Rock destroyed.



For the first few decades of the village's history, the Hokage Rock is left mostly untouched, being used only to house the village's
archives
 and protect its villagers during times of attack.
 In the years after the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, Konoha expands to the plateau above the monument, with the village's new skyscrapers seen towering above it.
 At some unspecified future point, the Hokage Rock is badly damaged.

Trivia

Springtime of Youth

The
Springtime of Youth
 wiki
 has an article about this topic:

Hokage Rock

The monument is similar to
Mount Rushmore
, which features sculptures of the heads of four
United States presidents
.

Despite the increasing number of faces, the
Hokage Residence
 is always right in the middle underneath them.

Scenes set during earlier periods of Konoha's history sometimes erroneously depict more faces on the Hokage Rock than existed at that point in time.

During the
Konoha Crush
, the Third Hokage's face cracks, giving those who see it a bad omen.
 The damage is apparently later repaired.

The
Fourth Hokage
 seems to have marked his head on the monument for the
Flying Thunder God Technique
, as he teleports to its location on two separate occasions.

In
Boruto
 episode 114
,
Iwabee Yuino
 adds
Shino Aburame
's face just above the Hokage Rock using
Earth Release
, and
Metal Lee
 adds
Rock Lee
's in order to raise the value of their
Extreme: Shinobi Picture Scrolls
 cards; they are removed shortly afterwards.

In
episode 161
, when
Naruto
 spilled a whole barrel of manure, the stone faces are shown making disgusted grimaces and the monument of the Fourth holds his nose.

In
Shippūden
 376
, when Tsunade demands that Naruto not to return to the village until he can defeat
Mecha-Naruto
, the stone faces are shown to make flabbergasted face faults.

In early episodes of the anime, the Fourth Hokage's hair is depicted as flat. This is corrected in later episodes of
Shippūden
. Similarly, the Sixth Hokage was depicted without a forehead protector in
The Last: Naruto the Movie
.

Shikamaru Nara
's face has not been added since becoming the Eighth Hokage due to him not yet being officially appointed to the position.

References