This article is about the episode. For the chapter, see
Homecoming
.

"
Homecoming
" (
帰郷
,
Kikyō
) is episode 1 of the
Naruto: Shippūden
 anime.

Synopsis

The episode begins with
Naruto
,
Sakura
, and
an unknown man
 running down a dimly-lit tunnelled hallway, checking every door in order to find
Sasuke Uchiha
. After spotting light at the end of the tunnel, where
another man
 awaits, Naruto and Sakura exit the tunnel to find Sasuke watching them from above. Naruto and Sasuke remember their last encounter at the
Valley of the End
, and Naruto asks Sasuke how come Sasuke did not kill him that day. Sasuke remembers
Itachi
's words regarding the
Mangekyō Sharingan
 and tells Naruto that he didn't want to kill him to obtain power the way Itachi did. Sasuke then instantaneously comes down, and keeping one arm around Naruto, mocks his dream of being
Hokage
. While Naruto muses about how he couldn't even save his friend, let alone be Hokage, Sasuke pulls out his
sword
 and prepares to kill Naruto.
The Nine-Tailed Fox
 then offers his power to Naruto, but asks Naruto to remove the seal holding the demon fox in place. Before Naruto can do so, he is interrupted by Sasuke. Naruto is surprised that Sasuke is "inside of him" and Sasuke realises that Naruto's incredible source of power stems from the Nine-Tails, surprised that such a beast is kept confined in Naruto. The demon fox replies that he is impressed that Sasuke was able to see him inside of Naruto, even with his
Sharingan
, and adds that Sasuke is the spitting image of
Madara Uchiha
. Sasuke manages to dispel the fox's spirit and claims that he does not know who Madara is.

In the present day,
Team Ebisu
 is scampering out of a forest in
Konoha
, chasing
a cat
.
Konohamaru
 runs into
Teuchi
, the owner of
Ramen Ichiraku
. Teuchi immediately berates "Naruto", before remembering that it is Konohamaru and that Naruto is no longer in Konoha. After completing their mission, Konohamaru asks for a tougher mission so that he may challenge himself.
Ebisu
 states that they are only
genin
, and
Tsunade
 adds that fresh graduates from the
Academy
 only get D-rank missions. Konohamaru sits down on the floor and asks for a tougher mission, the same way Naruto did following his mission capturing the very same cat. Konohamaru tells them that they are all looking at the Seventh Hokage. When Tsunade asks why he said seventh instead of sixth, Konohamaru states that the position of Sixth Hokage will go to none other than Naruto. The mention of Naruto's words elicits surprise from
Iruka
, Tsunade and Ebisu. As Team Ebisu leaves, Tsunade remarks that while Konohamaru may or may not be the future Seventh Hokage, he is definitely just like Naruto.
Shizune
 then adds that Naruto and
Jiraiya
 should be returning from their training and travel soon.

At the same moment, Naruto and Jiraiya emerge out of the forest and enter through Konoha's border gate. The two ninja stationed at the border recognise the two instantly. After entering the village, Naruto climbs up a pole and, standing on top of a tower, announces that Konoha hasn't changed a bit and proudly declares that he has returned to Konoha. He notices Tsunade's face on
Hokage Rock
, and realises that that is the only difference. Konohamaru,
Udon
 and
Moegi
 spot Sakura and Konohamaru asks where she's headed to. Sakura tells him that Tsunade asked her to run an errand by the front gate and invites them to tag along. As they get there, the two guards tell them that someone special just arrived and is currently inside the village. Realising that Naruto has returned, Sakura and Konohamaru rush through the village and find him. Sakura instantly notices that Naruto is taller than her now, and admires how mature he has become. She asks him whether she looks like a woman now, but he tells her that she does not, and that she looks the same as she did before, angering her. Konohamaru then decides to show Naruto his
Sexy Technique
, telling Naruto that he has managed to get the curves just right. Naruto then admonishes Konohamaru for using such a technique and that such a move is beneath him, prompting Sakura to reflect on how Naruto has changed on the inside as well, admiring the new mature Naruto while also slightly missing the younger, rambunctious Naruto. However, Naruto then prepares to show Konohamaru a much more advanced version of the Sexy Technique, igniting Sakura's anger and causing her to punch Naruto, sending him flying through concrete. Jiraiya is surprised at Sakura's temper and strength and realises that Tsunade has groomed Sakura into a secondary version of herself. Meanwhile, Sakura continues to berate Naruto for pulling a move like that when they have just reunited after nearly three years.

Jiraiya, Sakura and Naruto then head to Tsunade's office to report the former two's arrival. Tsunade is glad that they have returned, and asks Naruto to show her what he has learned. She tells him that she has found an opponent for him and Sakura to fight, and that she purposely withheld him from missions the past few days so that he could be at his best. Naruto wonders who the opponent could be just as the door opens, causing Naruto to gasp.

Trivia

It was first aired along with episode 2 as an hour-long premiere special.

The first part of the episode shows Naruto's first post-timeskip reunion with
Sasuke
, something that does not actually occur until
Naruto: Shippūden
 episode 51
.

Konohamaru and his team's capture of
Tora
 the cat is identical to a mission
Team 7
 went on in the first
Naruto
 anime, where Team 7 found Tora.

The way Konohamaru demands for a more challenging mission and then proceeds to sit on the floor and announce himself as a future Hokage is also identical to Naruto's actions after the latter caught the same cat.

The way Naruto and Jiraiya come back to
Konoha
 after the time skip in
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja 4
 was more similar to that of the manga than the anime, as he saw Kakashi before he saw
Team Ebisu
 and
Sakura
.

Adult Swim
 premiered this episode on January 5, 2014 uncut to replace
Naruto
 on their
Toonami
 block.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Maile Flanagan
Sakura Haruno
Chie Nakamura
中村 千絵
Nakamura Chie
Kate Higgins
Jiraiya
Hochu Otsuka
大塚 芳忠
Ōtsuka Hōchū
David Lodge
Fifth Hokage: Tsunade
Masako Katsuki
勝生 真沙子
Katsuki Masako
Debi Mae West
Shizune
Keiko Nemoto
根本 圭子
Nemoto Keiko
Megan Hollingshead
Iruka Umino
Toshihiko Seki
関 俊彦
Seki Toshihiko
Quinton Flynn
Ebisu
Nobuo Tobita
飛田 展男
Tobita Nobuo
Crispin Freeman
Sasuke Uchiha
Noriaki Sugiyama
杉山 紀彰
Sugiyama Noriaki
Yuri Lowenthal
Itachi Uchiha
Hideo Ishikawa
石川 英郎
Ishikawa Hideo
Crispin Freeman
Nine-Tailed Fox
Tessho Genda
玄田 哲章
Genda Tesshō
Paul St. Peter
Izumo Kamizuki
Tomohiro Tsuboi
坪井 智浩
Tsuboi Tomohiro
Richard Cansino
Kotetsu Hagane
Tomoyuki Kono
河野 智之
Kōno Tomoyuki
Liam O'Brien
Teuchi
Eisuke Asakura
朝倉 栄介
Asakura Eisuke
Lex Lang
Konohamaru
Akiko Koike
小池 亜希子
Koike Akiko
Colleen O'Shaughnessey
Moegi
Noriko Shitaya
下屋 則子
Shitaya Noriko
Wendee Lee
Udon
Tomo Shigematsu
重松 朋
Shigematsu Tomo
Kate Higgins
Madam Shijimi
Nozomi Takatsuki
高月 希海
Takatsuki Nozomi
Mona Marshall