This article is about the episode. For the chapter, see
How You Use It
.

"
How You Use It
" (
使い方
,
Tsukaikata
) is episode 186 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

The
Konoha
 shinobi wait for
Ao
's attack,
Mitsuki
's
snake
 acting as a scout. They discuss Ao's prowess, and plan to defeat him as shinobi. Mitsuki warns them of Ao's approach. Ao sees where they're hiding, and attacks Mitsuki, whose
Lightning Release
 counterattack Ao absorbs. Mitsuki retreats and
Konohamaru
 attacks with
Fire Release
. Ao notices their disregard for conserving chakra, and deduces they have a strategy. Mitsuki attacks while Ao is absorbing Konohamaru's attack, forcing him to dodge, allowing
Sarada
 to land
taijutsu
 hits. Ao's shinobi-ware is resilient, so he counterattacks Sarada. The three continue attacking with ninjutsu for him to absorb and dodge.
 Ao creates a greater
Absorption Sphere
 to absorb all their attacks at once. Ao notes
Boruto
's absence, and determines him to be vital to their strategy. Boruto strikes from above with the
chakra blade
, which Ao blocks with his own. Before Boruto can retrieve his blade, Ao collects it and stabs him with it. Ao boasts of seeing through their strategy, but Boruto mocks him. He grips Ao's hands on the blade handle, Mitsuki
wraps his arm
 around it so he can't let go, and the Boruto Ao stabbed disperses, a
shadow clone
. The chakra blade drains Ao's chakra, who uses his own tools to force Mitsuki to release him. The real Boruto attacks with a
Rasengan
, and uses the
Jutsu Absorption Arm
 so his Absorption Sphere cancels out Ao's, allowing him to land the Rasengan. Boruto throws Ao's words about how to use tools back at him. Ao removes his absorption arm, destroyed by Boruto's attack. Konohamaru detects Ao's attack from above and pushes Boruto out of the way, being hit himself and knocked unconscious. They notice
drones
 in the sky under Ao's control.
Katasuke
 surmises they respond to Ao's chakra. Boruto comments on how un-shinobi Ao has become, and Ao is steadfast that
Kara
 saved him and allowed him to transcend into a new existence. He denounces that not all shinobi can be powerful, which necessitated the search for new powers like he has. Boruto asks Sarada and Mitsuki to protect Katasuke and Konohamaru, and prepares to face Ao's drone strikes. He uses the arm to absorb some of their attacks. The drone strikes blocks the attacks he throws at Ao. Boruto
throws himself
 at the drones, hopping between them, planting
explosive tags
 to take them out. Some he destroys with electrified shuriken. Still in the air, Boruto strikes with
Water Release
, but Ao's drones evaporate the water. Boruto asks why Ao didn't return to
Kirigakure
, and Ao answers he was waiting for death as a shinobi. He couldn't stand no longer being a shinobi. Ao commends Boruto for pushing him so far, and the two resume fighting. Boruto attacks with shadow clones, but Ao is able to discern the original, since the jutsu can't replicate complex machinery such as
scientific ninja tools
. Sarada tries intervening, but Mitsuki has to pull her out of the way of the drone attacks. Ao prepares to stab Boruto, who disperses the shadow clone armed with the absorption arm. Boruto emerges from the rubble, and dodging Ao's attack, lands a Rasengan in his weaponised arm, destroying it and sending him against the abandoned building. Ao's drones crash down. Ao admits defeat, and when Boruto pulls out the screwdriver, Ao tries goading him into killing him. Ao thinks him naive for showing mercy. Boruto once again voices Ao's "how it's used" rationale, so even the tools Ao uses should be used for good. He tells Ao to live with the tools Katasuke gave him. Konohamaru regains consciousness, and wants to take Ao back to Konoha when they get reinforcements. Katasuke looks forward for the future of the genin. Ao notices and calls out to
Koji
, who
summons
 a
toad
.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Konohamaru Sarutobi
Hidenori Takahashi
高橋 英則
Takahashi Hidenori
Katasuke Tōno
Taira Kikumoto
菊本 平
Kikumoto Taira
Ao
Tadahisa Saizen
西前 忠久
Saizen Tadahisa
Koji Kashin
Yuichi Nakamura
中村 悠一
Nakamura Yūichi