The
Hyūga Affair
 (
日向の件
,
Hyūga no Ken
) — as the incident is known nowadays in Kumogakure — happened nine years prior to the start of the series, while
Kumogakure
 and
Konohagakure
 were at war. In an attempt to put an end to the fighting, they agreed to a peace treaty to be signed on the date which coincided with
Hinata Hyūga
's third birthday. The treaty was soon revealed to might be nothing more than a cover when the person who was the
Head Ninja of Kumogakure
 at the time — who was in Konoha to sign the treaty — attempted to kidnap Hinata in order to obtain the
Byakugan
 and its secrets. The shinobi was killed in his attempt by Hinata's father,
Hiashi Hyūga
.

The urgency of the situation lead to every Konoha Anbu being dispatched out of the village on a single mission, leading to the village's key ninja being on standby in case fighting broke out.

Kumogakure denied all accusations of the kidnapping, and demanded the body of Hiashi as compensation for the death of their Head Ninja as per the stipulations of the treaty.
Hizashi Hyūga
 decided to go in his brother's place as they were twins and Kumogakure would not be able to tell the difference. This had another advantage, besides saving the life of the head of the clan; Hizashi's
cursed seal
 would seal his Byakugan upon his death, safeguarding its secrets.
 Despite Hiashi's protest and their
father
's behest, Hizashi chose on his own to do this, not only for the clan and village, but for his brother.

The details surrounding Hizashi's death are quite well-known among the high-ranking ninja of
Konohagakure
, most of them taking it as a serious infraction on
Kumogakure
's part. This was shown when
Yamato
 called out the
Fourth Raikage
 for his relentless pursuit of
Sasuke Uchiha
, comparing the latter's supposed abduction of
Killer B
 to their attempted theft of the Byakugan and noting that Konohagakure remained magnanimous while Kumogakure were vindictive.
 While they didn't become allies, Konohagakure and Kumogakure seem to have come to cordial terms in the years passing.

References