This article is about clan from Konohagakure. For chapter 79 of the manga, see
The Hyūga Clan
.

The
Hyūga Clan
 (
日向一族
,
Hyūga Ichizoku
) is a well known clan of
Konohagakure
,
 as well as the strongest clan in the village.
 All members born into this clan possess the
Byakugan
, a
kekkei genkai
 that gives them extended fields of vision and the ability to see through solid objects and even the
chakra circulatory system
, amongst other things. Members of this clan also possess an innate ability which allows them to expel chakra from any of the
tenketsu
 in their body.

Background

The Hyūga clan are descendants from the
Ōtsutsuki clan
, specifically from
Hamura Ōtsutsuki
's lineage. As a result, they are also distant cousins of the
Uchiha
,
Senju
,
Uzumaki
, and
Kaguya clans
. They are considered to be one of, if not currently, the most powerful clan in Konohagakure. Their fame and prowess stretches far and wide, leading others to both praise and covet their abilities. During the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, a
Kumo
-nin noted that they had a hard time against them during a previous war.

Members of the main house.
Members of the branch house.
The entire clan.
1/3

The clan is separated into two parts: the
main house
 (
宗家
,
sōke
) and the
branch house
 (
分家
,
bunke
), a system that protects the secrets of the Byakugan from outsiders. The main house runs the family while the branch house protects it. The members of the branch house are branded with a
cursed seal
 upon the third birthday of the heir to the main house. This seal gives the main house members absolute control over the branch members, because they can destroy the branch members' brain cells with a simple hand seal, or cause them great pain to punish them. This seal also makes sure the secret of the Hyūga's Byakugan is safe, because it seals the Byakugan after the wearer of the seal dies. Because they are essentially servants, simply because of their birth order or heritage, some branch house members are hostile to those of the main house.

In the past, there have been several attempts on the part of Kumogakure to acquire the
dōjutsu
 of this clan. This even culminated in the death of the would-be-thief: the
Head Ninja of Kumogakure
 and the demands of
Hiashi
's corpse who had killed him according to the stipulations in the peace treaty that the two villages had signed. Ultimately,
Hizashi
 was the one who sacrificed his life for the village and clan, sealing away his Byakugan as he died and avoiding war. This event would become known as the
Hyūga Affair
.

Abilities

It has been noted that this clan possesses more than one kekkei genkai.
 Unique to the Hyūga's main family, they had inherited the powerful chakra from their ancestor
Hamura Ōtsutsuki
 directly. Only those who possess this special chakra can touch the
Tenseigan
 without suffering its side effects.






The Byakugan.



The Hyūga are renowned for possessing the highly coveted
Byakugan
 (
白眼
,
literally meaning:
 White Eye,
meaning (Viz):
 All Seeing White Eye), a
kekkei genkai
 feared for the great visual prowess that it grants its wielder. The first ability of the Byakugan gives the user a near 360º field of vision, except for one blind spot at the back of the neck above the third
thoracic vertebra
. The second ability is being able to see through solid objects, and can use a degree of telescopic sight. The distance and the degree of telescopic sight varies from person to person, and can be improved. In Part I,
Neji
 was able to see an area of 50 metres, but later he increases his visual range to at least 800 metres, while
Hinata
's range in Part I, during the 2nd round of the chunin exams was noted to be at least 1 km, in Part II, her range grew to at least 10 km and by 18 years old, it stretched to as far as 20 km at least. However, the Byakugan cannot see through certain barriers, such as the
Four Black Fogs Formation
 used by the
Sound Four
. The third and one of the greatest uses of the Byakugan is the ability to see chakra, its
flow
, as well as the chakra circulation system inside the body with great detail.






A common Gentle Fist stance.



Members of the clan are instructed in the use of the
Gentle Fist
 style, which uses the Byakugan to view the opponent's
Chakra Pathway System
 and deal precise blows to disable and impede the flow of
chakra
. Due to training in this style, Hyūga clan members tend to have excellent chakra control. This is emphasised in techniques that utilise this chakra control, as well as the nuances of the Gentle Fist Art. Because of this, the Gentle Fist is regarded as Konoha's strongest
taijutsu
 style.






The Gentle Fist Art.



Another ability possessed by members of this clan grants them the innate ability to expel chakra from every
tenketsu
 in their body, allowing them to fully utilise chakra with attacks such as the
Eight Trigrams Palms Revolving Heaven
 and the
Gentle Fist Art One Blow Body
 techniques. This allows descendants of the clan, such as
Boruto
 to use the Gentle Fist despite lacking the Byakugan.
 In addition, the clan's techniques outside the basic Gentle Fist fighting style, like the
Eight Trigrams Sixty-Four Palms
 etc., are only taught to members of the main house. Neji, however, has bypassed this restriction by learning them on his own through basic observation, furthering his reputation as a "genius" within the clan.

Leaders

Hyūga Elder
: Former Leader

Hiashi Hyūga
: Current Leader

Hinata Hyūga
: Former Heiress

Hanabi Hyūga
: Current Heiress

Other Notable Clan Members

Just prior to
Pain's Assault
, a Hyūga is seen working for the
Konoha Barrier Team
.

During Pain's Assault, a Hyūga tells
Sakura Haruno
 about the battle between
Pain
 and
Naruto Uzumaki
, as she is too far away to see herself.

In the anime, Hinata and Hanabi's mother is seen in a family photo.

During Pain's Assault, a Hyūga accompanies
Shikaku Nara
 and
Inoichi Yamanaka
 when they look for Pain. He finds Naruto with his Byakugan during their search.
 He is possibly the same Hyūga that was with Sakura earlier.

A Hyūga speaks with
Team Samui
 when they arrive in Konoha and tells them what's been happening in the village.

In the anime, a Hyūga accompanied
Team Kakashi
 and
Ibiki
 to retrieve
Riichi
, using his Byakugan to confirm that the hostage was the real Riichi.

During the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, a Hyūga is assigned to the
First Division
 and points out a
reincarnated
 Hizashi to Hiashi.

In the anime, during the Fourth Shinobi World War, a Hyūga holds a
Yamanaka
 when the
Allied Shinobi Forces
 converge on the
Ten-Tails
.

In the anime, a Hyūga is shown mourning the death of Neji.

During the Fourth Shinobi World War, several Hyūga assist Hiashi with performing the
Eight Trigrams Vacuum Wall Palm
.

In
The Last: Naruto the Movie
, two Hyūga guard Hiashi during his meeting with
Toneri Ōtsutsuki
. Both are killed by Toneri's
puppets
.

In the anime, a Hyūga was amongst the
genin
 graduating alongside
Itachi Uchiha
.

While born into the
Uzumaki clan
,
Boruto
 and
Himawari Uzumaki
 are also recognised as legitimate members of the Hyūga clan due to their direct bloodline from their
mother
.
 Due to his adoption by Naruto and Hinata,
Kawaki
 can be considered a member of both the Uzumaki clan and the Hyūga clan by adoption, as once adopted, he does not possess any dōjutsu or kekkei genkai from his adoptive parents' respective clans.

Trivia

"Hyūga" (
日向
) means "place in the sun", and is also the name of the
city in the Miyazaki Prefecture
 in Japan.

In the anime, it was noted that the Hyūga also have elaborate training rituals such as the Senbon Sparring ritual where the trainee must spar roughly one thousand times in succession.

While the clan's emblem didn't appear in the manga, it was featured at the end of each episode in the anime adaptation of
Konoha Hiden: The Perfect Day for a Wedding
.

In the anime, it is alluded that despite inheriting the Byakugan, not all Hyūga are able to manifest its actual powers.

References