"
I Know
" (
分かってる
,
Wakatteru
) is chapter 644 of the original
Naruto
 manga.

Summary

Through a fist bump,
father
 and
son
 begin to meld the chakra of
Yin
 and
Yang

Kurama
 together, and while the
Shinobi Alliance
 members look on in desperation, Minato and Naruto employ their strategy. To everyone's shock, their
Version 1
 mantles soon reappear and while
Sakura
 notes that she thought the shroud had disappeared,
Katsuyu
 informs her that she had noticed it while healing the
shinobi
 and realised that the shroud had only diminished, and
Hinata
 noticing this time it wasn't only Naruto's chakra. As
Jūgo
, who had made his way back to
Sasuke
's side, notes that the situation was getting hopeless and that Sasuke needed to have him
reverse summon
 them, Naruto calls for the two to come before him so he could distribute his chakra to them as well. While garnering praise from
Hashirama
 for the sheer volume comparable to his own,
Obito
 deems this a futile effort and while sealing himself away in the substance, as the tree fires the
Tailed Beast Balls
.
 As the dust settles, everyone is revealed to have survived the attack, much to Obito and the Alliance's shock. While
Tobirama
 praises Minato, coming to their aid for the second time during the battle, it is explained that by melding Yin and Yang Kurama's chakra, Minato was in turn connected to the other shinobi on the battlefield. This allowed him to
teleport
 them outside of the barrier. Explaining the concept based off how
shadow clones
 operated, a stumped Naruto is surprised that Tobirama knew so much about the Shadow Clone Technique, causing Tobirama to irritably exclaim that it was another technique he had invented. Naruto's later echoing of his father's sentiments, causes Yin-Kurama to note that the young
jinchūriki
 must have had a curious upbringing to be treating a
tailed beast
 as a comrade. Minato takes the opportunity to tell Naruto that he wished to speak to him, but Naruto dismisses him, noting that men could say all they wanted to each other with a mere glance. Allaying his father's misgivings, Naruto happily notes that both his and his
mother
's feelings had already been conveyed to him.