This article is about the chapter. For the volume, see
I Love You
.

"
I Love You
" (
大好きだ
,
Daisuki da
,
Viz:
 I Love You Guys) is chapter 689 of the original
Naruto
 manga.

Summary

Wasting no time to leap into battle,
Kakashi
 uses his
Susanoo
 to create Kamui-based shuriken and negate
Kaguya
's chakra-absorbing beast arms. Kaguya finally regains control of her power and transforms, emerging from her beast form and creating a large Truth-Seeking Ball intent on erasing everything from her
core dimension
. Kakashi calls his former students to him and gives them details on what will most likely be their last mission as a team.
 Their strategy finalised,
Team Kakashi
 charge at Kaguya; the latter uses her
All-Killing Ash Bones
 on them, but
Naruto
's
shadow clones
, and Kakashi's
Kamui
 abilities render them ineffective. Kakashi lands a hit on Kaguya using his
Kamui Lightning Cutter
 technique, sending her plummeting and incapacitating her right arm. As Naruto and
Sasuke
 charge at her, Kaguya uses her left arm to fire a bone projectile at Naruto and opens a portal linking her  right side and her severed arm as
Black Zetsu
 uses Kaguya's severed arm to send another bone projectile at Sasuke. To their surprise, Sasuke turns out to be a transformed clone. As Black Zetsu prepares to fire another bone at the real Naruto, Kakashi intervenes and interrupts the attack with his own space–time technique. Sasuke uses his
dōjutsu
 to
swap places
 with Naruto's disentegrating clone out from behind a wall of shadow clones just as Kaguya regains the strength to evade the two by flying upwards. At that moment,
Sakura
 — descending from above — sends Kaguya plummeting back towards her team-mates with a punch, allowing them to finally establish a physical connection to her. All the while, a reminiscent Kakashi comments on how well they worked together and cheerfully exclaims that he loves them as they are.

Trivia

In the original publication of this chapter, Sasuke's
Rinnegan
 was missing its
tomoe
 on the last page. This was corrected in the tankōbon version.