"
Ikada's Dream
" (
イカダの夢
,
Ikada no Yume
) is episode 240 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Boruto
 almost falls into the ocean again, concerned he won't be saved again, and still puzzled by the person with webbed hands.
Ikada
 warns him they're about to enter more turbulent, stormy waters. Boruto compliments Ikada on his skills, and Ikada reveals he was born on the sea and lived on a boat since he was little. He explains that he came to the shipbuilders' island on his own, just wishing to do something with boats, until he met
Kajiki
 and decided to become his apprentice. Boruto asks if this means he's living away from his family, and apologises for inquiring too much. Ikada says a lot happened when he left, and he only stayed in contact with his older sister, who was the only one who supported his decision. Boruto mentions
Himawari
, and the two bond over how scary angry sisters can be.
Sarada
 finds
Mitsuki
 walking around, and informs him she's learned some more about the
Funato
 and that
Kagura
 is busy with refugee related paperwork. Mitsuki reveals his recent interest in
Kawaki
, puzzling her.
Team 5
 and the shipbuilders get along. Sarada and Mitsuki arrive, and update them on recent developments.
Iwabee
 wants to evacuate the researchers as soon as possible.
 They tell Sarada and Mitsuki about Boruto's and Ikada's run for the replacement engine part. They're concerned about the rough waters and the fact they went on Ikada's first boat, but Kajiki is confident they'll be ok despite the work needed on his technical skills because Ikada put his soul on his boat. On rough waters, Boruto spots a capsized boat, wanting to help. Ikada is against it, not wanting to risk their lives, but relents when Boruto points out there's someone on the boat. Ikada reads the waves and the wind to avoid whirlpools, but they lose sight of the person on the boat. Boruto prepares to dive after them, but Ikada goes instead. Boruto notices webs on his hands as he swims. Ikada saves the man, and Boruto asks about his webs. Ikada confesses the webs appear whenever he puts effort in swimming, confirming he's the one who saved Boruto. He keeps them hidden so as not to startle strangers. Boruto doesn't find them that odd, knowing many peculiar persons himself. Ikada says no one else knows about it, and asks Boruto to keep it a secret, which he agrees. A wave knocks Ikada off the boat, but Boruto pulls him back with
shadow clones
, reminding him of his dream. As Ikada navigates, Boruto pushes driftwood away with
Wind Release: Gale Palm
. They reach their destination by sundown, and the man they rescued is taken to be treated. Ikada believes they were lucky, but Boruto credits him and his boat. He notices how different the sea is, and Ikada explains it's a great fishing spot. Boruto asks if the people protesting against the Shinonome 1 are concerned about the fish disappearing because of it. Ikada doesn't know. He reveals he didn't feel like he belonged at home, and came up with his interest in boats as a reason to leave. Being taken in by Kajiki helped him realise things about himself, he wants to build a ship to connect with people, just as ships connects separate islands. They rush to get to the factory before it closes.
Isari
 reports to
Araumi
 about the
Mizukage
's fleet.
Tenma
 looks forward to war. Araumi confirms
Seiren
 is ready for her role. Boruto and Ikada return with the replacement part, and Kajiki allows Ikada to finish installing it. Seiren and a
subordinate
 talk as they sail to an island, about Ikada having to step up as well.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Denki Kaminarimon
Chihiro Ikki
一木 千洋
Ikki Chihiro
Iwabee Yuino
Shinya Hamazoe
浜添 伸也
Hamazoe Shin'ya
Metal Lee
Ryo Nishitani
西谷 亮
Nishitani Ryō
Araumi Funato
Shigeru Chiba
千葉 繁
Chiba Shigeru
Isari Funato
Yoshihisa Kawahara
川原 慶久
Kawahara Yoshihisa
Tenma Funato
Tomohiro Tsuboi
坪井 智浩
Tsuboi Tomohiro
Seiren Funato
Megumi Han
潘 めぐみ
Han Megumi
Funamushi
Takahiro Fujiwara
藤原 貴弘
Fujiwara Takahiro
Master Kajiki
Takashi Matsuyama
松山 鷹志
Matsuyama Takashi
Ikada
Yusuke Shirai
白井 悠介
Shirai Yūsuke
Shipbuilder workers
Hirokazu Sekido
Kosuke Katayama
Katsunori Okai
関戸 博一
片山 公輔
岡井 カツノリ
Sekido Hirokazu
Katayama Kōsuke
Okai Katsunori