The
Impure World Reincarnation Allied Forces
 (
穢土転生連合軍
,
Edo Tensei Rengōgun
) was a group of reincarnated shinobi from various countries, whose mission was to unseal the stronger shinobi, previously neutralised by the
Allied Shinobi Forces
. The majority of them were shinobi whose DNA
Kabuto
 collected during his time serving
Orochimaru
, specifically for testing the
Summoning: Impure World Reincarnation
, and some were collected after Kabuto integrated Orochimaru's remains into himself.

History

After many of his strong reincarnated shinobi were neutralised, Kabuto deployed the many lesser shinobi he had available in an attempt to free them. While the Allied Shinobi Forces were initially intimidated by their numbers, their lacklustre power soon became apparent, and many of them were swiftly defeated and sealed. As their personalities weren't suppressed, many of them clashed over how to follow their orders, even catching up with Allied shinobi they had known in life and informing them of their objectives. When it became clear they wouldn't be able to recover
Toroi
, a group of reincarnated shinobi led by
Torune Aburame
 broke from the main force, their departure
obscured
 by
Heiji
, who was eventually sealed. While the group made their way to the sealed body of the
Third Raikage
, they discussed their regrets. One of them rushed in, getting himself caught and sealed in a trap, so
Daimaru
 used
his jutsu
 to get rid of the remaining traps.
Chūkaku
 attempted to
remove the seal
, but was interrupted by the arrival of
Temari
's team and promptly sealed. Daimaru confessed his feelings for her, much to her surprise, as she remembered him as a bully. Despite Temari not crying over his death, he was glad to know she was sad when he died, as he had been one of the few people not intimated by her being the
Fourth Kazekage
's daughter and
Gaara
's sister. He was quickly sealed, leaving Torune as the last unsealed shinobi of the force.

While he was unable to recover any of his stronger shinobi, Kabuto was pleasantly surprised by Torune, having previously thought of him as weak, and had him prepare an
Aburame kinjutsu
. Word of Torune's reincarnation spread through the Allied Forces, and
Shino
 found him. They caught up and reminisced over their shared past, and Torune advised Shino on how to stop him. The two began fighting, and were soon joined by one of
Naruto
's clones. Torune managed to land an attack on Shino, only to discover that over the years Shino bred
kikaichū
 that were immune to the venom of the
rinkaichū
. He made use of Torune's jutsu to speed up the growth of his own immune insects, and immobilised him long enough to apply a seal. Later, when the Impure World Reincarnation Technique was cancelled, soul's of all shinobi returned to the afterlife.