This article is about the chapter. For the genjutsu, see
Infinite Tsukuyomi
.

"
Infinite Tsukuyomi
" (
無限月読
,
Mugen Tsukuyomi
) is chapter 677 of the original
Naruto
 manga.

Summary

With the
dōjutsu
 reflected on the
moon
, and the
Infinite Tsukuyomi
 initiating,
Tobi
 abruptly ends the battle, and states that his job was done before releasing the encased
Yamato
 stating that he also had no need for him any longer. The
Allied Shinobi Forces
 brace themselves for another meteor impact but
Naruto
 once again manages to
deflect
 it. Realising the impending danger,
Sasuke
 rushes back to his comrades as
Madara
 casts the genjutsu over the world declaring that everything would become one.
 As light emanates from the moon, turning the night as bright as day, the
shinobi
 on the battlefield, as well as all the people and animals around the world begin to fall under the
genjutsu
 with the
Rinnegan
 reflecting in their eyes. The
reincarnated

Hokage
 are the only ones left unaffected by this and are left powerless to do anything but watch on as Madara used the God: Nativity of a World of Trees technique to connect all living things to the holy tree's own life force. Sensing the direness of the situation, Naruto moves to help his comrades, however, Sasuke stops him telling Naruto that the only reason they too hadn't fallen prey to the technique was because he was able to use his
Susanoo
 as a shield from the technique and if they were to leave its protection, the same fate would befall them. Just outside the protection of Susanoo,
Black Zetsu
 watches on, wondering if Sasuke's Rinnegan was able to counter the Infinite Tsukuyomi. Meanwhile back in
Konohagakure
,
Minato
 — who had flew there with Madara's
Truth-Seeking Balls
 — looks on as the citizens are encased by the holy tree and wonders just what is happening.

Trivia

When
Tobi
 separates himself from Yamato,
Hiruzen
 calls out his current codename; however, Hiruzen was already dead when
Tsunade
 became Hokage and gave Yamato his new codename, making it impossible for him to have known it. However, it's possible Hiruzen learned of it the same way as he did of his
son's
 death, through
Naruto's memories
.

Back in
chapter #669
, Minato teleported away with five of Madara's Truth-Seeking Balls. When he regains consciousness in Konohagakure, there are six spheres on his coat. This was not corrected in the tankōbon version.