"
Infiltrating Dotō Island
" (
潜入、ドトウ島
,
Sennyū, Dotō-jima
) is episode 235 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

The next day,
Boruto
 wants
Taiki
 to sail faster so they can help
Team 5
, and believes he just can't go faster when he claims he's going slow so as not to attract attention from pirates like the
Funato
.
Kagura
 can tell they're about to enter hostile waters by listening to the sea birds in the air. The shinobi hide as the boat is boarded by Funato clansmen. Taiki manages to bribe them, but
Kawaki
 exposes them by getting out in the open, feeling so sick he needed fresh air. They throw the Funato clansmen into the water, and Taiki speeds up the boat to flee from them, but only for a short while, so the engine doesn't die. Kawaki apologises for exposing them, and tensions rise between
Team 7
 and the swordsmen.
Mitsuki
 advocates against causing a ruckus in such a small boat. Kagura assures Team 7 the swordsmen can't betray them, and shows the cursed seals on their necks.
Buntan
 assures
Sarada
 they're taking this mission seriously as a way to shorten their sentences, and if they wanted to do anything, it wouldn't be in front of Kagura. They come across a destroyed island where villagers stood up to the Funato.
 Kagura explains how the Funato's influence grew when
Araumi
 took over leadership of the clan, and targeted trade routes between the
Land of Water
 and other nations, depriving them of wealth. Five years prior, Araumi was captured in an operation which
Chōjūrō
 himself took part in, so without its leader, the Funato's influence receded. Boruto thinks they're scum, but Kawaki points out even scum has reasons for what they do.
Dotō Island
 comes into view. The Funato clansmen on the island control the people. Boruto wants to find Team 5, but Kagura agrees that Sarada and Mitsuki would be better scouts, with the
Sharingan
 and
snakes
. Sarada wants Boruto to stay on the boat, watching the swordsmen. Kawaki reminds them that
Konoha
 researchers are also in the island, so they'll need another boat. They arrange to meet before the full moon. Sarada and Mitsuki infiltrate the island, and witness hostages carrying sacks from the mine. Mitsuki
spies them
 through his snakes, and learns they report to
Tenma
 and are transporting gold from the mines. They want to join up with Team 5 before trying to save the villagers.
Metal Lee
 rejoins
Denki
 and
Iwabee
 after setting up traps, and they discuss their situation. They're outnumbered by Funato, who have also confiscated the
mining puppets
. Sarada and Mitsuki learn that Team 5 hasn't been captured when a couple Funato fiddle with one of the puppets. They ambush the clansmen transporting a puppet, looking for clues about Team 5. The puppet fights them, its settings having been messed with by the Funato's fiddling. It escapes, and Sarada notices it was going after the gold on the Funato clansmen. They use it as bait in a trap and manage to reset the puppet. It leads them to Team 5, Denki still having the puppets' controller. They inform Sarada and Mitsuki the researchers have been captured. In Taiki's boat, the swordsmen antagonise Boruto, suggesting his team-mates have been eaten by sharks. Kagura reveals to Boruto the reason he's trusting the swordsmen is because he helped him when
Shizuma
 had lead him astray. He wants to save them, like Boruto saved him. Kagura explains those three had to opportunity to escape with Shizuma, but didn't, and won't explain why. Boruto appreciates Kagura's intentions, but can't bring himself to trust them. The water gets agitated as a gigantic structure approaches them.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Kawaki
Yuma Uchida
内田 雄馬
Uchida Yūma
Denki Kaminarimon
Chihiro Ikki
一木 千洋
Ikki Chihiro
Iwabee Yuino
Shinya Hamazoe
浜添 伸也
Hamazoe Shin'ya
Metal Lee
Ryo Nishitani
西谷 亮
Nishitani Ryō
Kagura Karatachi
Keisuke Komoto
河本 啓佑
Kōmoto Keisuke
Buntan Kurosuki
Mariya Ise
伊瀬 茉莉也
Ise Mariya
Hebiichigo
Nao Toyama
東山 奈央
Tōyama Nao
Kyohō Fuefuki
Yasuhiro Mamiya
間宮 康弘
Mamiya Yasuhiro
Captain Taiki
Kiyoyuki Yanada
梁田 清之
Yanada Kiyoyuki
Dotō Island village head
Hirokazu Sekido
関戸 博一
Sekido Hirokazu
Funato Soldier Leader
Akihiro Tajima
田島 章寛
Tajima Akihiro
Funato soldiers
Katsunori Okai
Kosuke Katayama
Kazuya Saji
岡井 カツノリ
片山 公輔
佐治 和也
Okai Katsunori
Katayama Kōsuke
Saji Kazuya