The
Infiltration and Reconnaissance Party
 (
潜入偵察隊
,
Sennyū Teisatsutai
) was an elite
Konoha
 team led by
Anko Mitarashi
 tasked with tracking down
Kabuto Yakushi
. During the course of their investigation, they located
Akatsuki
's
base of operations
, which they scouted for the
Allied Shinobi Forces
.

History

Pain's Assault






The first team.



The team initially consists of Anko,
Yamato
, and
Sai
. One of Sai's
ink clones
 is able to locate Kabuto, but before they can try to apprehend him, Yamato is forced to abandon the mission when he senses that
Naruto Uzumaki
 has reached his
six-tailed form
.

Later, Sai returns to Konoha due to unknown reasons.

Fourth Shinobi World War: Countdown






The new members of the team.



Anko and the new team eventually locate several
Takigakure
 ninja that Kabuto has killed. Anko recognises that Kabuto is testing his control over
Orochimaru
's remains, but becomes suspicious about why Kabuto is leaving bodies behind.
 They continue to follow Kabuto's trail, which leads them to the boundaries of the
Mountains' Graveyard
.
Tokuma Hyūga
 scouts the area with his
Byakugan
 and finds Kabuto talking with
Tobi
. Believing this to be Akatsuki's headquarters, they immediately send news of their discovery to Konoha. However, because Kabuto appears to have allied with Akatsuki, Anko cannot understand why he would betray Akatsuki by leading them there.

Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation

With the outbreak of the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, investigating Akatsuki becomes a top priority. To that end,
Muta Aburame
 is sent to replace one member of the team. Muta uses the worms native to the area to gather intel about the Mountains' Graveyard for him. The worms report back that there are a
huge number of living beings
 residing below the surface, which Tokuma confirms with his Byakugan.
 Soon afterwards several other
shinobi
 begin to leave the base, so Anko instructs her team to retreat and send what they've learned to the
Allied Shinobi Forces
 while she investigates the hideout. She is found by Kabuto and, despite her best efforts, is captured.

While the rest of the team is retreating, Tokuma notices that their presence has been detected by Akatsuki's pursuing
Surprise Attack and Diversion Platoon
. He volunteers to stay behind while Muta and
Ranka
 try to escape.
 When it becomes obvious to Muta that they will not be able to elude capture, he has his
insects
 take the intel the team has gathered to the Allies, using his
Insect Jamming Technique
 to buy time.

The
Surprise Attack Division
 later stumbles across Muta. As he is in obvious need of medical attention,
Zaji
 approaches Muta, unaware that he has been captured and
forced to become
 a
booby trap
. The rest of the Surprise Attack Division notices in time to shield themselves and get Zaji out of the way before Muta blows up. They are unable to grieve over Muta, as Tokuma and Ranka - also being controlled - are used by
Sasori
 to attack them.

Omoi
 is able to
release them
 and their wounds are then healed by
Kiri
.

Trivia

Anko has been observed in teams tracking down Kabuto on three separate occasions, with different respective members each time. However, it is likely the team did not actually become the Infiltration and Reconnaissance Party until its most recent incarnation.

In the anime, reinforcements are sent to Anko and Sai's location. They relieve Sai of his duties and send him back to Konoha. This restaffing is not seen in the manga.

References