"
Into the Sky Again
" (
再び空へ
,
Futatabi Sora e
) is episode 275 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Mozu
 cages
Yuki
 despite
Tsuzura
's protests, wishing to sell her. Tsuzura doesn't care about an animal's rarity, and Mozu says this is because he hasn't experienced hardship, recounting how in her past, she was neglected until she discovered a marten thought to be extinct, which earned her recognition. She has since worn it around her neck, and hopes Tsuzura will one day understand their value.
Sasuke
 and
Maruta
 return with a new hawk, and are welcomed by
Boruto
. He tells Sasuke of what he has learned about Tsuzura and his home life, and wishes Tsuzura could have a say in his own life. Sasuke shares his opinion of Paradise, but is unwilling to interfere at the moment, thinking Tsuzura has to realise it on his own. The next day, Mozu keeps Tsuzura locked in his room, and tells him she found a client who wants to stuff and mount Yuki, to match his living room wall. Seeing Boruto's message on the paper, Tsuzura sneaks off to get Yuki. Sasuke notes Boruto's displeasure at leaving. They're approached by a subordinate of Yuki's buyer, asking for directions. Upon learning the buyer is a taxidermist, Boruto rushes out, followed by Sasuke.
 Mozu goes to check on Yuki, finding her gone, Tsuzura having taken her. She finds them on their way out, and threatens him to return Yuki. She has the security officer chase him with his wolf. Right outside Paradise, Boruto protects Tsuzura, and Sasuke intimidates the wolf. Mozu threatens Boruto with life in prison if he steps in Paradise again. Sasuke offers his Thousand Mile Hawk in exchange for Yuki, to Boruto's surprise. Mozu takes the deal, and is certain that Tsuzura will return after struggling in the real world. The security officer wants to see them to the train station to make sure they don't return. The Thousand Mile Hawk goes in distress. An employee wants to take care of the valuable bird, but Mozu orders to have it opened up, wishing to learn its stomach contents to determine its habitat. On his way out, Boruto tries to comfort Tsuzura, who concedes that his mother is right this is the only home he's ever known, pointing out how Sasuke gave up his hawk. Sasuke tells him not to worry about it. Sasuke's hawk recovers and escapes, Sasuke having used his
Sharingan
 to command it to wreck havoc. The security officer recognises Sasuke's name when Boruto praises him. Mozu catches up, telling Tsuzura she'll forgive him if he brings her Sasuke's hawk. Tsuzura refuses to return home. Mozu threatens to destroy them with her connections, but the security officer, now aware of Sasuke's identity, tells her he's out of her league. The animals she kept escape. Tsuzura is concerned about his future, but Sasuke reassures him. Maruta takes on Tsuzura as an apprentice. Sasuke wants Boruto to return to
Konoha
 by himself, so that his actions against Mozu don't reflect on the village. He already meant to leave to look for
Kara
's last member,
Code
. He says
Sarada
 will understand when Boruto asks if she knows, and Boruto reiterates his desire to become a shinobi like him. On the train, Boruto struggles with a stuck window, and is helped by an
Iwa
 shinobi. A man rushes to get on the train before it departs. When everyone is asleep, the train changes course. When Boruto wakes up, everyone is detained on a featureless room with bunk beds.

Trivia

The subtitles use masculine pronouns with Yuki, despite the previous episode establishing her as a female hawk.

In the episode credits, Aoi Inase, Taira Kikumoto, and Kenshō Ono are credited as voicing characters, but not which, not even through unspecific descriptors.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Sasuke Uchiha
Noriaki Sugiyama
杉山 紀彰
Sugiyama Noriaki
Mozu Shitakiri
Kumiko Watanabe
渡辺 久美子
Watanabe Kumiko
Tsuzura Shitakiri
Kanae Oki
沖 佳苗
Oki Kanae
Maruta
Minoru Inaba
稲葉 実
Inaba Minoru
Security officer
Kosuke Katayama
片山 公輔
Katayama Kōsuke
Secretary
Hirokazu Sekido
関戸 博一
Sekido Hirokazu
Paradise staff
Katsunori Okai
Kazuya Saji
岡井 カツノリ
佐治 和也
Okai Katsunori
Saji Kazuya
Unspecified role
Aoi Inase
いなせ あおい
Inase Aoi
Unspecified role
Taira Kikumoto
菊本 平
Kikumoto Taira
Unspecified role
Kensho Ono
小野 賢章
Ono Kenshō