The
Inuzuka Clan
 (
犬塚一族
,
Inuzuka Ichizoku
) or
Inuzuka Family
 (
犬塚家
,
Inuzuka-ke
) is a family of
shinobi
 in
Konohagakure
 known for their use of
ninken
 as fighting companions and are easily identified by the distinctive red fang markings on their cheeks.

Overview





Members of the Inuzuka clan.



The members are given their own canine partner(s) when they reach a certain age. Thereafter, the shinobi and their dog(s) are practically inseparable. The shinobi and canine allies fight using
Cooperation Ninjutsu
, such as the
Fang Passing Fang
 or
Fang Rotating Fang
 techniques amongst others, that take advantage of their teamwork and their sharp claws and teeth. The clan members are also able to communicate with canines even if unlike Kuromaru, the dogs cannot talk. The members of this clan, much like their canine partners, have greatly enhanced senses, especially their sense of smell. By concentrating chakra to their noses, this sense is amplified to an even greater extent allowing the user to be able to detect, track and monitor targets from a fairly long distance away.
 The clan's fighting style primarily revolves around their enhanced speed, strength and agility granted by the
Four Legs Technique
 and other canine-based attacks, in conjunction with the tactical advantages granted by their heightened senses.

Other Notable Clan Members

In the anime, an Inuzuka, with two scars, one on each cheek above his clan symbol, appeared alongside other shinobi from the
Third Division
.

Trivia

"Inuzuka" (
犬塚
) means "dog hill," and is a reference to the dog samurai Inuzuka from
Kyokutei Bakin
's
Nansō Satomi Hakkenden
.

The red fang markings of the Inuzuka clan members' cheeks are a reference to the facial markings on San, a character from
Hayao Miyazaki
's,
Princess Mononoke
.

The majority of the known Inuzuka members are named after a part of the body of a dog (fang, nose, claw, jaw and ear), while their dogs are all named after colours (red, grey and black).

According to Kiba, his mother, Tsume, was responsible for scaring his father away.
 It is currently unknown what his father's involvement with the clan was.

References