Ishikawa
 (
イシカワ
) was the
First
Tsuchikage
 (
初代土影
,
Shodai Tsuchikage
,
literally meaning:
 First or Founding Earth Shadow) who founded
Iwagakure
 in the
Land of Earth
. In the anime, he was stated to be a member of the
Kamizuru Clan
.

Background






Ishikawa attending the five Kage summit along with Mū.



At the first
meeting of the five Kage
, Ishikawa, accompanied by
Mū
, sat alongside the others, where he noted that he had come in good faith to endorse the meeting of the five Kage, but noted that he would not sign so easily to agreement. True to his words, he expressed outrage when the
First Kazekage
 made a demand that instead of receiving a
tailed beast
, as the sand priests had already sealed away
one
, they requested 30% of whatever they would pay for a tailed beast from
Konoha
. As infighting broke out and
Hashirama Senju
 made his plea to them to preserve the future of their children and unite, he looked on intently.

In the anime, Ishikawa had a collection of sacred scrolls that contained secret techniques of his bug-tamer arts which at some point of time he hid, even from his own
clan
.






Ishikawa speaking with Ōnoki.



At some point during his tenure, Ishikawa tasked his grandson
Ōnoki
 with cleaning the
Stone Monument
 of their village, under his direct supervision. During the exercise, he explained that the stone was a symbol of the tough, unmovable will of the shinobi of Iwagakure — something that he regarded as "
essential
". Although describing Ōnoki as possessing such a will, he warned how forsaking it would result in a life filled only with excuses and hatred.

Personality

Ishikawa seemed to be a composed individual, with wisdom and experience befitting of his age. By his own admission, he was able to discern the value of a stone and a person's will alike by merely looking at them. Ishikawa was also known for his love of puns,
 as a consequence of this, he had a tendency to make reference to stones and their properties while speaking, aptly demonstrated during his advice to Ōnoki about discovering his innate strong will.
 This tendency, however, would lead to his own grandson to detest the use of puns.

Appearance






Ishikawa in his old age wearing the Tsuchikage headpiece.



During old age, Ishikawa had grown a bristling moustache and long beard, both of which had dark alternating highlights running through his grey hair. He also had a tendency to squint, or otherwise only opening just one of his eyes when necessary. He wore the traditional Kage attire — consisting of the customary hat and cloak — over a dark, loose-fitting, full-length gown that was tied using a lighter sash around his waist.

At the first meeting of the five Kage, he wore a dark-coloured kimono with light-coloured trimmings, while his long hair hung loosely around his face.

Abilities

Though his capabilities remain largely unknown, overall, as the founding Tsuchikage, Ishikawa was undoubtedly a powerful shinobi. He was able to use
Earth Release
 to
make his body light enough
 to fly.

In the anime, it was alluded that he used bee-based
ninjutsu
 as part of his
fighting style
.

Part II

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Main article:
Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes






The deceased Kage summoning Team 7 and the tailed beasts.



Subsequent to
Kaguya Ōtsutsuki
 being
sealed
 by
Naruto Uzumaki
 and
Sasuke Uchiha
, Ishikawa and the other deceased
Kage
 were summoned from the
Pure Land
 by
Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki
 to aid him and the
Hokage
 in
summoning

Team 7
, the
tailed beasts
 and
Madara Uchiha
 from
Kaguya's dimension
. After Hagoromo congratulated Naruto and the rest of Team 7 he mentioned how much the shinobi world had undergone, before his and the other Kage's souls were returned to the Pure Land.

Legacy

Many years after his reign, Ishikawa's family would produce two more Tsuchikage, his grandson
Ōnoki
 becoming the Third, and his great-great granddaughter
Kurotsuchi
 becoming the Fourth. In the anime, some time after his passing, Ishikawa's clan fell into disgrace, leading some of his direct descendants to attempt to find his secret scroll of forbidden techniques in hopes of restoring their former glory.

Trivia

"Ishikawa" (
石川
) literally means "stone river".

His name may have also been taken from one of the
prefectures in Japan
.

Alternatively, his name could originate from the legendary sixteenth-century ninja
Ishikawa Goemon
 (
石川五右衛門
).

When Ishikawa's spirit was summoned by
Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki
, he appeared as his younger self as seen during the first Kage Summit, despite having an older appearance during Ōnoki's childhood.

Quotes

(To
Ōnoki
) "
If you forsake your will while hitting a wall… you will begin to make excuses and obtain hatred in exchange of your determination. Listen now… you have to step forward without abandoning your will!
"

References