"
It Doesn't Matter
" (
どうでもいい
話
,
Dō demo ī Hanashi
) is chapter 8 of the
Boruto: Two Blue Vortex
 manga.

Summary

Ada

observes

Boruto
's talk with
Mitsuki
, being flustered by Boruto's attitude.
Kawaki
 hurries her to find Boruto by tracking Mitsuki. He ignores
Delta
's admonishing of his rudeness to Ada. Ada gives Mitsuki's position as around 20 kilometres south of the main gate. Kawaki flies off, followed by Delta, who Ada asks to look after Kawaki. She assures Kawaki she'll kill him the moment Ada loses interest him, he merely says he'll leave on his own when his goals are met. Boruto explains to
Shikamaru
 how the
self-aware God Trees
 work, and answers Shikamaru's question about those who become trees after being eaten by the
Claw Grime
. Shikamaru receives a report from an in-coming
connection
 from Kawaki, and confirms with
Ino
 that the connections are independent before accepting it. Kawaki reports he's going after Boruto based on Ada's intel. Shikamaru discreetly warns Boruto, and tries to caution Kawaki into waiting for back-up, but he's not waiting. Boruto
leaves
. As they approach the location, Kawaki stops, noting he can't sense Boruto, who likewise wouldn't sense him until he was close enough. Delta just finds him unlucky. Mitsuki joins Ada and
Daemon
, and they discuss their relationship with Kawaki.
 Despite knowing it's a false emotion, Mitsuki thanks her for showing him what loves feels like. He feels there's much he doesn't understand or care about over being an artificial human, including himself. However, now he knows he has to assert himself not to lose sight of that the sun is for him. He wonders if he and Ada are similar, not knowing why they love Kawaki. She wonders if he's saying she just loves being in love. He apologises in case he's being presumptuous. Ada finds their conversation dramatic, and wants to have a talk with Boruto soon. A Claw Grime approaches
Konoha
,
Jura
 and
Hidari
 leaping through it. Ino finds it hard to believe Boruto, but Shikamaru orders her to keep quiet about it. Shikamaru receives the report of two intruders, one of them matching
Sasuke
's chakra signature.
Sarada
 and
Sumire
 also receive the report. Shikamaru gives evacuation orders, Ada contacts him to let him know that the intruders are
Ten-Tails
, apologising for not reporting them earlier. Jura and Hidari make short work the guards. Jura is excited to run into a bookstore. Kawaki and Delta arrive, attacking Hidari. Kawaki
escapes
 Jura's binding, but Jura's attack breaks through his
body modifications
, telling him to stay put as he's not ready to eat him yet. Delta goes to check on Kawaki, while Jura believes he has sensed
Naruto
, explaining to Hidari that as an incarnation of a
tailed beast
, he can detect the tailed beast chakra in Naruto. Sarada recalls Boruto's explanation of what happened to Sasuke and wonders who arrived.
Team 10
 and
Himawari
 mobilise. The God Trees intercept them, Jura is confused by finding Himawari instead of Naruto.