Itama Senju
 (
千手板間
,
Senju Itama
) was a young
shinobi
 from the
Senju clan
.

Background






Itama ambushed by Uchiha shinobi.



Upon hearing the news of his brother
Kawarama
's death, a tearful Itama assembled alongside his
father
, and his remaining siblings
Tobirama
 and
Hashirama
 as the fallen were buried. After his father scolded him for crying — as shinobi were not to show emotions — Itama looked on horrified by the altercation between his father and his eldest brother. Later, while speaking to his brothers about seeking peace for the world, Itama voiced concern about what would happen to the retribution that should be sought for the death of their relatives. Tobirama admonished him for this way of thinking stating that the only way to achieve peace would be to repress feelings such as those.

Some time later, Itama was also placed on the
battlefield
 and on one occasion found himself surrounded by members of the
Uchiha clan
. He was subsequently killed by them.

Personality






Itama mourns as his clansmen are buried.



Itama was a seemingly kind and soft-hearted boy by nature, witnessed as he openly mourned the passing of his fallen clansmen as well as his brother.
 As a child, Itama was also very impressionable as seen during a conversation he had with his brothers about bringing peace to the warring world, questioning what would become of the retribution on those who had killed their relatives.

Appearance

Itama had a head of short, two-toned hair, with one side being black and the other half being white with matching eyebrows. He bore great resemblance to his siblings with his dark eyes, and he generally wore a simple pair of pin-striped pants, a dark-coloured shirt, and a short haori. While in battle, he wore armour typical of the era, and wrapped a piece of cloth around his forehead.

Trivia

Itama
 (
板間
) is Japanese word referring to the space between two wooden slats on a
duckboard
, a type of platform built to create a dry passage over muddy, or wet terrain.

Quotes

(To
Tobirama
 and
Hashirama
) "
That's easy to say… but then who will take revenge for all the loved ones we've lost? They'd roll in their graves if we just let bygones be bygones…
"

References