Iwagakure
 (
岩隠れの里
,
Iwagakure no Sato
,
English TV:
 Hidden Stone Village,
literally meaning:
 Village Hidden by Rocks) is the
hidden village
 of the
Land of Earth
. As the village of one of the
Five Great Shinobi Countries
, Iwagakure has a
Kage
 as its leader known as the
Tsuchikage
, of which there have been four in its history. The rocky mountain ranges that surround the village provide a natural stronghold that it is very proud of.
 The village's infrastructure is built from much of the surrounding rock and stone, shaped into tower-like structures that are inter-connected by a network of bridges. The Tsuchikage's residence seems to be the tallest structure with a cone-shaped roof and bears the kanji for "Earth" (
土
,
Tsuchi
) on it.

The standard attire for Iwa shinobi consists of red outfit — which can either have one, or both sleeves — a lapel which is usually found on the side without a sleeve and a brown
flak jacket
 — which also may, or may not have a pouch attached to it. They also tend to wear mesh armour around their ankles. Many Iwagakure ninja use
Earth Release
 techniques. Iwagakure is well-known for the rock-hard attitude of its shinobi; as soon as the Tsuchikage gives an order, the Iwa-nin follow it without hesitation, even if it means death.

History

Iwagakure was founded after the
Warring States Period
 by the
First Tsuchikage
. Shortly after the formation of their villages,
Konoha
's
First Hokage
 sold
tailed beasts
 to Iwa as a sign of friendship and to ensure a balance of power amongst their new villages. Despite this bid for peace,
Madara Uchiha
 made efforts unsanctioned by the Hokage or the rest of Konoha to make Iwa subservient to Konoha. Relations between the villages would eventually break down:

Iwa's close proximity with
Suna
 has led to numerous conflicts over the years, enough that enmity between its shinobi has become deep-seated.

The
Second Tsuchikage
 and
Kiri
's
Second Mizukage
 at some point met in battle and killed each other.

Iwagakure participated in the
Second Shinobi World War
, where it fought Konoha and Suna across
Amegakure
.

During the
Third Shinobi World War
, Iwa fought Konoha across
Kusagakure
. Although Iwa was winning the war for a time, the destruction of the
Kannabi Bridge
 cut off its supply line, turning the war in Konoha's favour. In the anime,
Konoha's Yellow Flash
 defeated 1,000 Iwa shinobi in a single battle, prompting the
Third Tsuchikage
 to surrender.

In the anime, Iwa's many battles with Konoha were often led by the
Kamizuru clan
. When Konoha's
Aburame clan
 proved the perfect counters to the Kamizuru, their status within the village declined.

Even during times of peace, Iwa and its Tsuchikage have worked behind the scenes against its fellow villages, such as by using mercenaries like
Akatsuki
 to carry out missions the village could not be directly involved in or that it lacked the resources for.
Deidara
, pupil of the Third Tsuchikage, stole a
forbidden technique
 to further
his artistic pursuits
, and defected after using his new art to leave the village structures in shambles, becoming a terrorist bomber
for hire
 before his forced recruitment into Akatsuki. In the anime, Iwa betrayed Kiri during an incident that would come to be known as the
Tragedy of Yosuga Pass
; while on a joint mission against
Kumo
, Iwa forces killed most of its Kiri allies in order to take all the mission's spoils for itself. Also in the anime, Iwa attacks Konoha after the
Konoha Crush
 in order to take advantage of its weakened manpower but is thwarted by
Kosuke Maruboshi
.

Like many villages, Iwagakure eventually began sealing its tailed beasts into
jinchūriki
; the most recent jinchūriki of its
Four-Tails
 was
Rōshi
 and the most recent jinchūriki of its
Five-Tails
 was
Han
. Since the Second Tsuchikage's era, they actively took part in acquiring other tailed beasts. The anime suggests that Iwa did not hold its jinchūriki, or at least Han, in high regard and was glad when Akatsuki captured him. The Third Tsuchikage's words during a
Kage Summit
 suggest that this is not entirely true, as he calls Akatsuki's capture of both its jinchūriki an embarrassment.





Iwa entrapped in the God: Nativity of a World of Trees.



Iwagakure joins the
Allied Shinobi Forces
 during the
Fourth Shinobi World War
 in order to oppose Akatsuki. Although initially planning to continue undermining the other villages as it has for years, conversation with the
Fifth Kazekage
 convinces the Third Tsuchikage that Iwa has lost its way. As such, the Third advocates cooperation with the other villages and becomes personally involved in several battles in order to set an example. In the anime, he even apologises to the other villages for previous actions against them that he has sanctioned.






Iwagakure's new village.



The war was eventually won, but it left massive scars on the world and Iwa, as well as causing a great loss of human life. The villagers spent day and night restoring the village, and in a few years, they built a new town on the outskirts of the village,
 with the tallest building in it housing the Tsuchikage, and the original village becoming known as the "Old City".
 When the
Earth Daimyō
 intended to take over the
Land of Flowers
, putting
Kurotsuchi
 in a bind, the world was, yet again, nearly thrown into another devastating war.

Years after the Fourth Shinobi World War, the Third Tsuchikage was left disillusioned with their newfound peace when a
missing-nin
 attacked the village that left many genin dead due to their waning strength from inactivity. As a result, he went to research on creating
Akuta
, artificial soldiers who would supplant the shinobi to protect the weak. However, due to the sudden disobedience of these creatures during the demonstration, along with such attempts to build a private army being in transgression of the agreements of the Union, the Fourth Tsuchikage banned any further developments. Nevertheless, the Third would continue his work in secret, creating
Fabrications
 to serve as commanders for his Akuta army. However, Ōnoki's plans went awry when the Fabrications gained their own free will from their desire to live longer than their fragile artificial lives would allow, which led to their revolt against the village by placing it under lock-down while trying to sacrifice five villagers to transplant their human hearts into themselves. With the help of Konohagakure's
Teams 7
 and
10
, the Fabrications were defeated and the Akuta army were destroyed, although Ōnoki died while fighting the
last Fabrication
. Although Iwagakure, the Five Kage and the small amount of Konohagakure teams knew of the truth, the rest of the world were given a cover story that Ōnoki died from ill-health during a dissenter attack on the village that was suppressed by Kurotsuchi.

Locations

Stone Monument

Clans

Kamizuru Clan

Trivia

Initially in the anime,
Kurotsuchi
 and
Akatsuchi
 were the only two Iwagakure shinobi to be illustrated with red under-shirts and forehead protectors, as in the manga. The rest kept their brown under-shirts and blue forehead protectors, as they were first coloured in the anime. This was fixed following
Shippūden
 episode 254
.

See Also

List of Iwagakure characters

References