"
Jūgo's Reinforcements
" (
重吾の援軍
,
Jūgo no Engun
) is episode 101 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Boruto
 watches the birds and thinks about
Jūgo
 being taken away.
Sarada
 and
Mitsuki
 try to reassure him, and suggest focusing on finding
Sumire
. The
Land of Rivers
 researchers prepare to begin experimenting on Jūgo. Sumire and
Nue
 look for
Namida
 and
Wasabi
, but run into
Karin
 and
Suigetsu
. Nue attacks Suigetsu, who retaliates.
Team 7
 hears the ruckus of their confrontation. Suigetsu's counterattack is enough to cause Nue's summoning to end. Team 7 arrives, Mitsuki and Sarada recognising Suigetsu and Karin before Boruto can attack. They tend to Sumire, and Suigetsu explains they're there to take Jūgo back to
Orochimaru
. Team 7 explains Jūgo's situation, and Suigetsu decides to get him back from the researchers, so as information on his cursed seal and connection to Orochimaru remain concealed. Suigetsu is unconcerned by Jūgo's efforts to save the birds, annoying Boruto, pointing out Boruto has just met him, while Suigetsu has known him for years. Boruto requests they wait until Sumire wakes up, so she can tell them what she knows about Wasabi and Namida's cursed seal infections. Karin and Sarada catch up with each other, and Karin wants Sumire to bite her for healing.
 Mitsuki teases Suigetsu. Jūgo wakes up and
Tosaka
 explains where they are. Suigetsu explains to Boruto that Jūgo has tried to overcome his destiny before, but has come to accept it. Boruto counters he knows someone who is trying their hardest to live the way they want, and compares that to Jūgo's commitment to helping the birds despite the risks. Mitsuki informs them Sumire is awake. Sumire tells them of the twins with cursed seals wearing collars, who Boruto remembers as part of the Land of Rivers research them. Sumire speculates they're doing something they don't want discovered. Suigetsu believes they're after Jūgo's cursed seal. Karin decides everyone should collaborate, lest unfavourable reports are made to Konoha, that would eventually reach Orochimaru due to their involvement. Sarada and Karin will lure the twins away, so the others can go in and rescue everyone else.
Momo
 and
Sasami
 boast about their cursed seals to a restrained Wasabi and Namida. The research leader tells them to clean up their mess, and sends them after Sumire. They spot her, actually a transformed Sarada. Sumire will look for her team-mates, Mitsuki will look for
Konohamaru
, Boruto and Suigetsu will look for Jūgo. Sasami finds Sumire's movements suspicious. Boruto and Suigetsu run into Tosaka, Sumire finds the girls, who inform her the serum on the desk will remove their cursed seals. Boruto updates Tosaka and asks where Jūgo is. The Land of Rivers research leader tries to assassinate Konohamaru, but Mitsuki got to him in time. Sarada drops her disguise and is joined by Karin, but only Sasami reaches them. Momo doubles back and comes across
Team 15
. Tosaka takes Boruto and Suigetsu to where Jūgo is, and uses tranquillisers on them as they try to free him, welcoming them to his research lab.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Sumire Kakei
Aya Endo
遠藤 綾
Endō Aya
Wasabi Izuno
Natsumi Yamada
山田 奈都美
Yamada Natsumi
Namida Suzumeno
Sara Matsumoto
松本 沙羅
Matsumoto Sara
Jūgo
Shuhei Sakaguchi
阪口 周平
Sakaguchi Shūhei
Suigetsu Hōzuki
Takashi Kondo
近藤 隆
Kondō Takashi
Karin
Toa Yukinari
行成 とあ
Yukinari Toa
Tosaka
Takehito Koyasu
子安 武人
Koyasu Takehito
Momo
Atsushi Tamaru
田丸 篤志
Tamaru Atsushi
Sasami
Yuka Iguchi
井口 裕香
Iguchi Yuka
Land of Rivers Research Group leader
Shinya Hamazoe
浜添 伸也
Hamazoe Shin'ya