The kekkei genkai of
Jūgo's clan
 is an instinctual ability which allows its members to absorb and make use of
natural energy
 without any training in
senjutsu
.

Overview

Due to the steady but constant intake of natural energy, they are prone to mental instability, sporadically feeling sudden and uncontrollable urges to kill. The wielder's body can also secrete special fluids which, through means of Senjutsu chakra, allow them to
transform
 parts of their bodies.
 While varied by appearance and function from user to user and even from use to use, the affected parts of their skin change colour (the hair colour also may change) and if the transformation occurs in the eyes, they change colour as well. Seemingly, the risk of petrification from the imbalance of natural energy, appears to be non-existent.

Being that the natural energy gathered can temporarily be balanced within the wielder of this ability, they can safely
transfer
 their accumulated
senjutsu chakra
 to another individual.

Background

After Jūgo massacred an entire village during one of his rages, he secluded himself, living in caves, until he was approached by
Kimimaro
, who told him
Orochimaru
 could help him with his urges. Jūgo went to Orochimaru voluntarily, and allowed him to research his transformations. More interested in the source of the transformation than in curing the killing urges, Orochimaru experimented with Jūgo's body fluids, developing an enzyme that can trigger similar changes in other, suitable hosts, through
cursed seals
, which Orochimaru determined to be ten percent of the population, all others dying after having the cursed seal applied. However, their transformations are limited to fixed forms, able only to transform into a specific form back and forth. His investigations on the source of their power also led him to the discovery of
Ryūchi Cave
.

After
Sasuke
 absorbed Orochimaru,
Kabuto Yakushi
 found himself without purpose, and following Orochimaru's belief of adding to himself to find his true self, injected himself with the biological material of the subjects of many of Orochimaru's experiments, including Jūgo. Doing his all to emulate his master, Kabuto went to the Ryūchi Cave, and the ability to absorb natural energy passively aided him in training senjutsu under the
White Snake Sage
.

In the anime,
Tosaka
 did his own research on Jūgo's cursed seal powers, and duplicated it in combination with
Scientific Ninja Tools
 to create a
collar device
 that can grant the wearer power similar to
Sage Transformation
. However, contrary to his claim of it being the "ultimate Cursed Seal weapon", Tosaka was completely overwhelmed by Jūgo's genuine powers.

Trivia

Despite Kabuto altering his DNA to obtain this kekkei genkai, he does not show any side effects of natural energy absorption like the clan's members. However, this could be the case simply due to Kabuto mastering
Sage Mode
.

References