Jinin Akebino
 (
通草野餌人
,
Akebino Jinin
) was a
jōnin
 from
Kirigakure
, and a member of the
Seven Ninja Swordsmen of the Mist
.

Background






Jinin and his team-mates confront Team Chōza.



At some point, Jinin joined the Seven Ninja Swordsmen of the Mist, where he came in possession of the
Kabutowari
. Some time after the
Third Shinobi World War
, he alongside the other swordsmen encountered a
Konoha team
. After managing to corner the shinobi, the three were saved by
Might Duy
, who
sacrificed
 himself in order for them to escape.
 In the anime, Jinin was killed by Duy's effort.

Personality

In life, he was described as being heroic.
 From expanding on what was seen in the anime, Jinin is very confident of his sword, the
Kabutowari
, the sword with the strongest offence, thinking it is meaningless for anyone to try and block. He also appears to enjoy killing his enemies like his other swordsmen team-mates.

Appearance






Jinin's full appearance.



Jinin has a brown beard and hair which he ties into a topknot. The remainder of his face appears to be rather angular and features a very protuberant nose. He wears a dark-coloured
poncho
 cloth over a standard Swordsman attire, consisting of a sleeveless dark shirt and matching pants along with a waist-guard, pin-striped arm and leg-warmers typical of his village and Kirigakure's
forehead protector
. He also has bandages around his neck like all the members of the previous generation of swordsmen.

Abilities

As one of the Seven Ninja Swordsmen of the Mist, Jinin was one of the most powerful shinobi produced within
Kirigakure
. Jinin's generation of swordsmen were noted to be the strongest in the village's history. He was capable of using
Silent Killing
, as seen when fighting the
Third Division
 of the
Allied Shinobi Forces
 while under the effect of his former colleague
Zabuza Momochi
's
Hiding in Mist Technique
.

Kenjutsu






Jinin utilising Kabutowari.



He was evidently very skilled at utilising
Kabutowari
, a blunt sword that consists of a single sided axe and a hammer joined by a leather strap, which is said to be capable of breaking through any defence. This is achieved by first striking with the axe, before hammering it through the remainder of the obstruction with the hammer, resulting in the axe functioning much like a wedge, proving himself ambidextrous in his use of the weapon.
 The sword's construction still allows the weapons to retain their individual capabilities and thanks to Jinin's expertise and high speed, both the axe and the hammer can be exploited to their fullest.

In the anime, Jinin could also use the hammer to create a powerful shock-wave by slamming it into the ground. Kakashi Hatake noted that because of Jinin's aggressive style and the pure offensive nature of Kabutowari, Jinin has poor defensive skills, allowing one who is fast enough to counter-attack by exploiting his openings.

Part II

Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation

Main article:
Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation






The previous generation of the Seven Swordsmen of the Mist reincarnated.



Amidst the battle with the
Third Division
, the
reincarnated
 previous generation of the
Seven Ninja Swordsmen of the Mist
 were
summoned
 by
Kabuto Yakushi
 via
Pakura
 and
Gari
, with the intention of overwhelming the opposition. Amongst their number was Jinin, who after being futilely bombarded by various techniques, retrieves
Kabutowari
 from within a
scroll
 that was in
Mangetsu Hōzuki
's possession. Entering the fray whilst concealed by a
thick mist
, Jinin began a
silent
 massacre, driving his axe into the adversaries' weapons, before hammering through their defences. With Zabuza's defeat, the mist cleared, exposing Jinin to the enemy. By the time
Kakashi Hatake
 and
Might Guy
 departed for
Naruto Uzumaki
's location the following day, Jinin had been sealed by the Third Division.






Jinin being sealed by Sai.



In the anime, Jinin's sealing was expanded upon. Jinin and the other reincarnated shinobi continue their attack on the dawn of the second day of war.
Kakashi Hatake
 arrived to back up a small group fighting against Jinin and eventually bisected his adversary.
Ensui Nara
 used his
Shadow Sewing Technique
 to bind Jinin until
Sai
 completed his sealing technique however his hold on him was released when debris from Gari's explosion injured him. As Jinin reclaimed the Kabutowari, Sai unleashed his
tiger drawing
 on him in time to seal away the swordsman.

Fourth Shinobi World War: Climax

Main article:
Fourth Shinobi World War: Climax

With the release of the Impure World Reincarnation technique, Jinin's soul was presumably returned to the
afterlife
 along with the others.

In Other Media

Video Games

Jinin Akebino is a playable character in the following video games:

Game name
Japanese release
English release
Naruto Mobile
2016
2016
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Blazing
14 July 2016
24 August 2016
Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Online
14 April 2013
20 July 2016

Trivia

Jinin (
餌人
) means "bait man", and Akebino (
通草野
) means "Akebia field"; like all members of the Seven Ninja Swordsmen, his surname is derived from a type of
produce
.

References