"
Joining Fists…!!
" (
合わせる拳…!!
,
Awaseru Kobushi…!!
,
Viz:
 Fist Bump) is chapter 643 of the original
Naruto
 manga.

Summary

Yin
-
Kurama
 questions
Minato
 about whether or not he had always intended to have his
son
 take care of the situation for him, questioning whether that was the reason behind sealing its
Yang
 half into him. The fox then tells Minato it was not his fault that
his wife
 died, and Naruto becoming a
jinchūriki
 was not inherently bad. Back on the battlefield, Naruto and
Tobirama
 regroup with the others, and while Naruto explains the fact that
senjutsu
 had been effective against their opponent, Tobirama muses to himself that Naruto's ability to work with his Flying Thunder God Technique and use of senjutsu reminded him greatly of fighting alongside his
brother
. Recovering from his injuries, Obito lamented that even as the beast's jinchūriki, he could not afford to act carelessly, before casually continuing on with the
Eye of the Moon Plan
. Creating an enormous tree with four opened flowers, Obito creates four
Tailed Beast Balls
 intent on destroying the remainder of the
Allied Shinobi Forces
 in one fell swoop.
 As the
shinobi
 scramble to deal with the situation, Tobirama noted that even if he and Minato used the
Flying Thunder God Technique
 to teleport the attack away, they could each only carry two, only halving the threat. Calling out to his brother, Hashirama once again beseeches
Madara
 to put their battle off so that he can deal with the situation, but the
Uchiha
 notes that they were
reincarnated
 and as such it would not matter if they were caught in it. He then challenges his
Senju
 rival to defeat him if he wanted to help. One of Hashirama's remaining
wood clones
 calls out to the Alliance to not lose their nerves and explains his strategy to them. However, Obito with the use of the
chakra receivers

erects
 a barrier, intent on trapping the shinobi with the attack. As they readjust their strategy to their new predicament, Naruto notes that he had a plan but wasn't sure it would work. He then proceeds to ask Minato to bump fists with him, connecting the two halves of Kurama. The Yang half of Kurama asks its Yin half to help it by providing it with some chakra, to which the Yin half noted that it begging itself for help was weird. As Obito — wrapped in a
defensive
 cloak — continues to decry Minato exclaiming that it would soon be the anniversary of Minato and
Kushina
's death. Noting that it only meant that tomorrow was also his birthday, Naruto tells Obito that the world would not end because he still existed within it. Donning his
Tailed Beast Mode
 mantle, he calls out to his father who marvelled to Kushina that their son had grown up, responds emphatically.