This article is about the chapter. For the God Tree, see
Jura
.

"
Jura
" (
十羅
,
Jura
) is chapter 22 of the
Boruto: Two Blue Vortex
 manga.

Summary

After being killed by
Sarada
,
Ryū
's
Thorn Soul Bulb
 is exposed in the air.
Mitsuki
 tells
Araya
 to retrieve it and return it to
Shinki
's tree as he deals with the remaining
Claw Grime
. However,
Jura
 suddenly emerges from a
Claw Mark
, alerting Mitsuki. Much to the two's surprise, Jura ignores them as well as Ryū's Thorn Soul Bulb, immediately directing his attention to
Boruto
's location.

After Boruto swiftly cut
Matsuri
 into pieces,
Konohamaru
 comments that he is impressed. Boruto simply remarks that it was this easy to finish her because Konohamaru had already
weakened
 her. As many particles of sand surround the two, Boruto proclaims that Matsuri's Thorn Soul Bulb is manifesting. Suddenly, a small hole is formed on the ground near them, gaining their attention. Boruto confirms that it was a
Miniature Tailed Beast Ball Sniper Shot
 from Jura, discovering that he has arrived. As Jura begins to fly towards their location, Boruto throws several shuriken around the area, and orders Konohamaru to grab Matsuri's Thorn Soul Bulb and rendezvous with the other shinobi and await further instruction. When Konohamaru hesitates, Jura charges a
Tailed Beast Ball
 and fires it, prompting Boruto to grab Konohamaru and fly to avoid the attack, which causes an explosion. Boruto throws Konohamaru as Jura closes the distance. Konohamaru regains his composure and complies with Boruto, beginning to escape. As Jura looks at him, Boruto suddenly appears behind him and attacks with a
Rasengan
. Jura fires another Tailed Beast Ball, which Boruto
dodges
 and re-appears next to a shuriken which marks the spot Jura was sent flying towards. As Boruto tries to strike with his sword, Jura parries with his hand. Jura comments that while this is a bad habit, fighting a strong opponent like Boruto fills his heart with joy.

Meanwhile,
Ada
, watching the current events unfold with her
Senrigan
, confirms with
Koji Kashin
 that despite Boruto's satisfactory performance, he has no chance against Jura. Ada suggests that he teleports away, but Koji states that he can't as Boruto cannot concentrate on sensing his metal objects while fighting a strong opponent like Jura that has declared to kill him. Additionally, Boruto is fighting to keep Jura occupied while Konohamaru and the others escape, as Jura would simply deal with them and retrieve Ryū's and Matsuri's Thorn Soul Bulbs. Koji accepts that Boruto has led himself to his death.

Jura declares his intention to kill Boruto, stating that Boruto knows too much about them, while also asking if Boruto's secret accomplice is his source of intel. Boruto remains quiet, thinking to himself that Jura had to have taken damage from his Rasengan, but he cannot get a proper read on him. He states that he must use
Rasengan: "Uzuhiko"
 to finish Jura. Jura begins to ask Boruto what love is, knowing that Boruto is aware he stands no chance against him, but is engaging him anyway. Jura attacks from below Boruto's feet using
Wood Release
, but Boruto flies into the air to avoid it. Jura attacks from behind, and Boruto slashes through the attack, which causes more branches to emerge and chase Boruto. Boruto is struggling as he cannot use Rasengan: "Uzuhiko" if he cannot plant his feet on the ground.

Another Wood Release attack sends Boruto crashing to the ground, also forcing him to drop his
sword
. Boruto is then ensnared by more Wood Release branches, injuring him. With Boruto captured, Jura walks up to Boruto's fallen sword and picks it up. Boruto threatens Jura that he will meet a fate worse than death if he does anything to the sword, as it is a precious object passed down to him by his master,
Sasuke
. Jura proposes that Boruto should reveal the location of his accomplice, and Jura will agree to not do anything to the sword, although he will still kill Boruto afterwards.

Boruto admits that Jura may be right about love being a flaw and weakness to humans, and this is precisely why they will never be more than just trees, using Rasengan: "Uzuhiko" to free himself from his bindings. Boruto teleports behind Jura, having teleported to his sword still in Jura's hands, and strikes him with Rasengan: "Uzuhiko". Jura is sent flying but lands on his feet, however he shows trouble in keeping his balance. Boruto proclaims that due to his damaged sense of equilibrium, he will have trouble flying, much less standing. However, much to Boruto's surprise, Jura is able to nullify the attack and cure himself, revealing that it is similar in concept to his Tailed Beast Balls.