"
Kāma Power
" (
楔
,
Chikara
,
Viz:
 Karma Power) is chapter 65 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 manga.

Summary

Kawaki
 fears
Boruto
 is experiencing side effects from
Amado
's drugs. Time stops for everyone but Boruto, who has another vision of
Momoshiki
. He tells Boruto that the drugs are just a stopgap measure in his
Kāma
's extraction. Boruto recalls time also stopped before when Momoshiki was defeated. Momoshiki notes
Code
, finding him worthless, and decides to kill him to take possession of
his Ten-Tails
. Time resumes, and Momoshiki attacks Code, who narrowly
avoids
 a
Rasengan
. He comments how superior it is to Boruto's strength with Kāma, seeing how
Boro
 had no chance. Momoshiki intends to do the same to him.
Sai
 informs Amado that Kawaki and Code are already fighting, having encountered an unknown chakra signature near Boruto. Knowing Code isn't a sensor, he finds it strange he found Kawaki so fast.
Sumire
 suggests he has an Outer working with him, but Amado knows no Outer that skilled. Sai is hopeful that
Naruto
 will defeat Code, and notices Amado is deep in thought. He is concerned about what Kawaki might do. Momoshiki keeps using Rasengan, keeping Code on the defensive.
Ada
 suggests he retreat.
 Code immobilises Kawaki, using him as a shield against Momoshiki, who needs Kawaki as a sacrifice as well. He considers it an honour having met Momoshiki, and begins to leave. Momoshiki compresses a Rasengan and
shoots it as a bullet
, piercing Code. He grabs hold of Kawaki and comments on Code's inability to absorb jutsu with his White Kāma. Ada contacts Code. Momoshiki tells Kawaki to respect him for saving him, but Kawaki attacks, so Momoshiki prepares to break his arm.
Shikamaru
 stops him with
his shadow
, allowing Naruto to grab Kawaki. They notice Boruto is possessed again. Momoshiki absorbs Shikamaru's jutsu, freeing himself. Ada still thinks Code should retreat, but Code is pleased by Shikamaru's presence. Naruto asks Kawaki about him and Boruto, but Kawaki is distraught Naruto is there, telling him to flee. Naruto refuses. Code takes Shikamaru hostage. Shikamaru yells for Naruto to ignore him and attack Code, saying he knew what he was getting into. Momoshiki decides to help Code kill Naruto, who is also a problem for him. Kawaki attacks Momoshiki, who kicks him aside. Naruto braces himself for Momoshiki's
Ultra-Big Ball Rasengan
. He notices his jutsu is being absorbed. Kawaki recalls Amado's words as he absorbs the jutsu with a Kāma that is purely a weapon now that
Isshiki
's soul is gone. All are surprised by it.

Trivia

This chapter's title is written with the kanji used for Kāma, but its reading is indicated being the same as "power" (
力
,
chikara
).