This article is about the chapter.  For other uses, see
Kama (disambiguation)
.

"
Kāma
" (
楔
,
Kāma
,
Viz:
 Karma) is chapter 23 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 manga.

Summary

Koji Kashin
 releases his Boiler Toad summon, and commends
Team Konohamaru
 and
Katasuke
 for defeating
Ao
. Konohamaru asks him about
Kara
 and its objectives, and Koji instead
immobilises
 them with fūinjutsu and prepares to incinerate them. Konohamaru
breaks free
 from the hold of Koji's fūinjutsu by releasing one of his own. Konohamaru fights Koji Kashin, and is surprised along with everyone else when he counters his
Rasengan
 with one of his own, without the aid of
scientific ninja tools
. They're puzzled by his identity. Koji Kashin considers Konohamaru to be formidable, but comments he has a long way to go, and detonates a
toad
 he planted on Konohamaru, engulfing him in
flames
. In despair, Boruto reaches out to Konohamaru, activating the
seal
 on his hand, which spreads through his body, much to Koji Kashin's disbelief.
 Boruto absorbs Koji's fūinjutsu, allowing himself and the others to move, and absorbs the flames on Konohamaru, who collapses. Koji Kashin is surprised seeing Boruto with Kāma, having thought
Naruto
 was the one who killed
Momoshiki
. Boruto antagonises Koji Kashin, but collapses before being able to do anything else.
Sarada
 shields Boruto as Koji approaches, but he doesn't attack, and surmises it's the first time Boruto tapped into that power. He turns to leave, thanking them for such an interesting display and for killing Ao. Sarada tries questioning him for information, but
Mitsuki
 stops her from pursuing him, pointing out they have to focus on Boruto and Konohamaru. Koji Kashin approves of his judgement, knowing him as
Orochimaru
's child. Later, as Boruto and Konohamaru recover, they consider all the things they need to report. Mitsuki finds a destroyed autonomous puppet, different from the ones they fought, far away from the crash site. The puppet's state suggests a very strong opponent, and Konohamaru considers the possibility of someone with the blimp's cargo having made all the way there.
Chamaru
 calls their attention to a
passed out boy
 by some destroyed puppets, and despite Konohamaru's concerns of a possible trap, Boruto approaches him to help, noticing the boy has the same seal on his hand.