This article is about manga chapter. For a character, see
Kabuto Yakushi
. For other uses, see
Kabuto Yakushi (disambiguation)
.

"
Kabuto Yakushi
" (
薬師カブト
,
Yakushi Kabuto
) is chapter 584 of the original
Naruto
 manga.

Summary

Kabuto
 was startled by
Orochimaru
's approach. Orochimaru said he's been watching Kabuto and
Nonō
 for a long time, and invited him to come with him, promising to reveal to him the reason Nonō attacked him and didn't recognise him. Orochimaru then took Kabuto to his medically-equipped hideout, telling Kabuto he's the first person he had brought there. Kabuto questioned Orochimaru on why he brought him there, and Orochimaru was pleased with his enquiring nature. Orochimaru reveals that
Root
 designed for Kabuto and Nonō to kill each other, as they became too skilled as spies, and that their knowledge made them too dangerous. Orochimaru explained that
Danzō
 told Nonō the reason Kabuto joined Root, and she begged him to free Kabuto. Danzō agreed, provided she killed
one man
, which turned out to be Kabuto, though she wasn't told of this. Orochimaru showed Kabuto photos Nonō was shown through the years, as proof Kabuto was growing up. At some point, the photos were changed, showing someone other than Kabuto, making Nonō believe Kabuto was someone else, living a civilian life, and being sent on missions on different countries, they would never meet. Kabuto figured Orochimaru was sent to kill the one who survived. Orochimaru told him he's correct, and Kabuto attacked him viciously, all the while asking who he is now that the only person who knew him was gone. Orochimaru regurgitates himself, and told Kabuto he's not who he thinks, and that he was like him. He explained to Kabuto that he was the research he made, always changing himself, adding knowledge and skills, and that he valued Kabuto's skill, that being the reason why he assembled that hideout. He added that he planned to create
Otogakure
, a village without country, and fashioned Kabuto a new background. Kabuto became Orochimaru's spy, pretending to be a spy for
Sasori
 in order to learn about
Akatsuki
, and aided Orochimaru in his experiments through the years. After Orochimaru's defeat at
Sasuke
's hand, Kabuto injected himself with blood from Orochimaru's true form's remains, looking for his true self.