The
Kabutowari
 (
兜割
,
literally meaning:
 Helmet Splitter) is one of the mystical
swords
 of the
Seven Swordsmen of the Mist
, that has been passed down from generation to generation amongst the group's members since the
First Mizukage
's era.

Overview

The sword itself consists of a giant axe and hammer, linked end-to-end by a flat, thin, leather-like rope, which together are referred to as a "
bluntsword
" (
鈍刀
,
dontō
) that is said to be able to break through any defence. Although the length of cord means each weapon can be utilised individually, to cut and crush obstructions respectively, their true strength lies in their capability to be employed in conjunction with one another. When facing a particularly difficult or seemingly impenetrable defence, the wielder can first attack by striking with the axe before slamming the hammer downwards onto its blunt backside, thus using the blade like a wedge to drive straight through the offending obstacle and into the desired target located behind.
 In the anime, Jinin was able to use the hammer part of Kabutowari to create a powerful shock-wave by slamming it into the ground. The tips of the axe part are also very sharp, as when Jinin attempted to use it to hook onto the ground debris to prevent himself from being
dragged into a seal
, it shattered the stone, causing Jinin to lose his anchor.





Kabutowari being used as a bluntsword.



Kabutowari was eventually lost to
Kirigakure
 alongside five other blades. The sword is first seen when a
reincarnated

Mangetsu Hōzuki
 summons it from a
scroll
, where it is then returned to its respective wielder,
Jinin Akebino
. Some time after the
war
, Kabutowari was returned to Kirigakure.
 In the anime, a rebellious group proclaiming themselves the
New Seven Ninja Swordsmen
 stole the seven blades to start a revolution against the modernisation and peaceful era of Kirigakure, determined to return to the days of the "Bloody Mist".
Kyohō Fuefuki
 took up Kabutowari.
 Soon after, he and his team was defeated, allowing the village to reclaim the sword. Later, as part of a work-release program, Kyohō was allowed to wield Kabutowari again on a mission to reduce his sentencing.
 During it,
Kobanza
 stole it to kill captain
Taiki
 while Kyohō slept, before putting it back, framing Kyohō for the murder.

Utilised Techniques

Iron Hammer of Kirigakure

References