Kagami Uchiha
 (
うちはカガミ
,
Uchiha Kagami
) was a
jōnin
 from
Konohagakure
's
Uchiha clan
.

Background

In the anime, Kagami was amongst the first few hundred of students to attend and graduate the
Academy
.
 Having become friends with
Danzō Shimura
 and
Hiruzen Sarutobi
, he saved the former many times with his
dōjutsu
.






Kagami with his team during the First Shinobi World War.



During the
First Shinobi World War
, he and his teammates from the
Escort Unit
 accompanied the
Second Hokage
 on a mission. Pursued and ultimately surrounded by
Kumogakure
's
Kinkaku Squad
, the group discussed their options, where Kagami noted that Koharu's plan of an ambush wouldn't work and that instead, a diversion was needed to lure the enemy away. He then listened as the Second Hokage, who had nominated himself as the decoy, appointed Hiruzen as the Third Hokage.

At some point, Kagami became a father, and at the age of 25 died.
 His only known direct descendant
Shisui
 would go on to inherit his
Will of Fire
 rather than the Uchiha's
Curse of Hatred
.

Personality

Along with a strong devotion towards his own clan, Kagami was noted to be greatly dedicated to the protection of Konoha, having accomplished much for the sake of the village. His sense of loyalty was so great, he never fell victim to his clan's
Curse of Hatred
, something that normally had a high probability of happening after awakening the
Sharingan
. For this reason, he was one of the few Uchiha that both Danzō and Tobirama believed in. He also was one of the six people Tobirama chose to work directly under him,
 who later compared Itachi's dedication to his.

Appearance






Kagami's full appearance.



Kagami was a fair-skinned man with short, black, tousled hair which fell over around his forehead protector, framing his face. The anime actually depicts Kagami's hair a bit more kept. During the First Shinobi World War, he wore the standard Konoha outfit of the time which consisted of a black suit with grey armour covering the chest, thighs, and shoulders, arm guards, a
forehead protector
, a kunai holster on his right upper leg, a pair of chainmail armor on his lower legs, sandals, and a pouch strapped to his lower back with bandages.

At other times, his attire was that typical to the Uchiha clan and included a high-collared, dark-coloured shirt. In the anime when he was a child during the village's founding, he was seen wearing a typical high collared black Uchiha shirt with a clan symbol on the back, grey pants, bandages around his arms and legs, and black shinobi sandals.

Abilities

As an Uchiha, Kagami had very powerful chakra. He was one of the members that were able to awaken his clan's kekkei genkai: the
Sharingan
, which granted him various advantageous abilities. These included seeing the flow of
chakra
, the ability to easily recognise
genjutsu
 and different forms of chakra, some predictive capabilities, as well as the ability to copy techniques that the user sees amongst other things. In the anime, his visual prowess was praised by Danzō for saving his life many times.
 Kagami's descendant, Shisui, who was hailed as a genius and the strongest Uchiha of his time
 and a wielder of the
Mangekyō Sharingan
, openly admitted he was inferior to his ancestor.

Trivia

"Kagami" (
鏡
) literally means "mirror", which are significantly associated with the Uchiha clan. For example, "mangekyō" (
万華鏡
,
kaleidoscope
) in
Mangekyō Sharingan
 literally means "mirror of ten thousand flowers" and one of the sacred weapons of
Itachi Uchiha
's
Susanoo
 is the
Yata Mirror
.

While it was said that Shisui is Kagami's "descendant" (
子孫
,
shison
), their exact relationship is unknown.

Studio Pierrot's Settei sheets of Kagami show that he was 147cm around the time the
Valley of the End
 was created.

References