Kaguya's Dimensions
 (
カグヤの時空間
,
Kaguya no Jikūkan
,
literally meaning:
 Kaguya's time–space dimension)
 are a gathering of alternate spaces that
Kaguya Ōtsutsuki
 has access to through the use of
Amenominaka
.

Overview

The first dimension was shown after Kaguya's resurrection. Wishing to not fight on the world that she viewed as her "nursery", Kaguya transported both
Team 7
 and
Obito Uchiha
 to the mysterious world and over a widespread river of lava.
 Kakashi states that Kaguya has the ability to literally rewrite all aspects of the dimension instantly, a phenomena he also compares to the creation of
genjutsu
.
 There are a total of six interconnected dimensions which she can teleport to by creating
portals
.

Kaguya has the ability to travel between any of her six dimensions as she sees fit. The dimension were noted by Obito to be very far from each other and he had a hard time believing she could join these dimensions in an instant. Even so, Black Zetsu stated repeated usage of instant dimensional transfers with
Amenominaka
 was starting to take a toll on her chakra reserves.

Dimensions

Kaguya's mountainous core dimension which links all her dimensions together. While in this dimension, Kaguya recovers quickly and is able to absorb chakra from victims of the
Infinite Tsukuyomi
 at will. Kaguya and
Black Zetsu
 were sealed within a newly-created
moon
 here.
A lava-filled expanse of land. Most notably, there exists a large volcano beside which there is a castle-like construction.
An icy realm, composed of frozen canyons and mountains. Another castle-like construction called "
Kaguya's Castle
" is situated atop an icy cliff.
A vast desert full of sand dunes. This dimension is very hot due to its climate.
A sea of acid which can burn any substance: organic or otherwise.
A dimension with small pyramid-shaped terrain which has massive gravity force, making it extremely difficult — if not impossible — to move within it.

Trivia

Some
Space–Time Ninjutsu
 are also capable of opening portals between Kaguya's dimensions by synchronising with the nature of Kaguya's own portals. This requires an extremely large amount of
chakra
.

By synchronising his own
space-time technique
 to Kaguya's
spatial distortions
,
Obito Uchiha
 was able to open portals to link the dimensions together. However, even with
Sakura Haruno
 backing his chakra reserves, this still caused Obito's eyes to strain to the point of bleeding.

By using an
unspecified technique
,
Sasuke Uchiha
 was able to enter the six dimensions, but regular dimensional travels also resulted in Sasuke temporarily losing access to his
Mangekyō Sharingan
 and his
Rinnegan
 losing its tomoe.

Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki
,
Kinshiki Ōtsutsuki
 and
Urashiki Ōtsutsuki
 were also able to enter Kaguya's Ice and Lava dimensions by unknown means.

Considering the angular shape of the terrain and the increased gravity capable of bringing anyone to their knees, the last dimension seems to be inspired in the ishidaki (
石抱
,
literally meaning:
 Stone Holding), a form of torture in which the victim is forced to kneel on triangular wedges and stone slabs are placed on their lap.

When Kaguya created an
enormous Truth-Seeking Ball
 in her core dimension by absorbing the chakra from the victims of Infinite Tsukuyomi, it was said that it would be used to create a new dimension.

Through some unexplained circumstances, another
moon
 can be seen in Kaguya's ice dimension in the opening of
Boruto: Naruto the Movie
 and in the sand dimension, a sun during the ending credits of
The Day Naruto Became Hokage
 OVA.

Kaguya's Core Dimension appears in
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 4
 as a playable stage, while the sand, ice, and lava stages are able to be switched to, using her itemset. The acid dimension is not seen, but the acid from it is involved in her combos, and the gravity dimension appears only in the story mode.

In the manga, the sky in Kaguya's core dimension is azure-blue. In the anime, it is a greenish-yellow colour. In
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 4
, it is multi-coloured.

References