This article is about the clan. For the princess, see
Kaguya Ōtsutsuki
.

The
Kaguya Clan
 (
かぐや一族
,
Kaguya Ichizoku
) is a now extinct clan, known for their savage battle tactics and archaic values, and as descendants of
Kaguya Ōtsutsuki
, a select few have inherited
a derivative
 of her original ability to
manipulate one's bone structures
.

Background





The Kaguya clan's destruction.



The Kaguya Clan were descendants of Kaguya Ōtsutsuki, and selective few, namely
Kimimaro
, possessed the
kekkei genkai
 Shikotsumyaku from Kaguya's original bone-manipulating ability.
 This ability was so powerful that even the war-loving Kaguya Clan feared it.

The clan was noted for being very savage and battle-hungry, having no tactics when entering battle that they initiated simply to show off their ferocity. It was due to this failed attempt to prove themselves that the entire clan was killed off when attacking
Kirigakure
; even when surrounded and completely outmatched, they refused to back down, preferring to fight to the death simply to entertain their own bloodlust to the last.

Kimimaro was the only one of the clan to survive, as he did not share the same urge for barbaric slaughter as the others, and after being adopted by
Orochimaru
, he would live as the last of the Kaguya Clan for several years, but eventually died of a terminal illness.

Abilities

As descendants of Kaguya Ōtsutsuki, a select few were able to inherit the Shikotsumyaku kekkei genkai, a derivative of their ancestor's All-Killing Ash Bones
Kekkei Mōra
, which allowed them to manipulate their skeletal structure to weaponise bones for battle.
 This ability was so powerful, regarded as the ultimate
taijutsu
 ability, that the other members of the clan feared it.

Apparently, the members who possess the Shikotsumyaku abilities have a different body structure than others, as when Kimimaro was fatally ill,
Kabuto Yakushi
 claimed there had been too little information on his body to give any medical treatment.

Leaders

Kaguya Clan Patriarch
: Last Head before clan's destruction.

Trivia

The clan shares their name with the progenitor of their kekkei genkai: Kaguya. The marking on their foreheads also seem to be replications of her own shortly cut eyebrows and the zigzag cranial pattern right in between their heads which served as visible sign of her nobility.

In an interview with
Naruto
 creator
Masashi Kishimoto
, he mentioned that the two markings on the Kaguya Clan members' foreheads are based off of the marks on aristocrats during the
Heian period
.

The clan's hairstyle seems to be inspired by
Yayoi period
 styles.

References