"
Kakashi Chronicles ~ Boys' Life on the Battlefield ~ Part 2
" (
カカシ外伝～戦場のボーイズライフ～前編
,
Kakashi Gaiden ~ Senjō no Bōizuraifu ~ Kōhen
) is episode 120 of the
Naruto: Shippūden
 anime.

Synopsis

As
Kakashi
 heads through the woods to
Kannabi Bridge
, he flinches in pain from his wound. Recalling
Rin
 healing his wounds and
Obito
's steadfast decision to abandon the mission to save her, Kakashi begins to consider his choices. Meanwhile, Obito manages to locate the two
Iwa
-nin outside their cave. As he slaps his face in order to focus, the sound carries throughout the cave, alerting the ninja to his presence.
Taiseki
 decides to deal with Obito while
Kakkō
 continues using his
Interrogation Genjutsu
 on Rin in an attempt to break her. Using his
Hiding with Camouflage Technique
, Taiseki sneaks up on Obito and prepares to kill him with a
kunai
, only for Kakashi to interfere and slash at Taiseki with his
White Light Chakra Sabre
. Seeing the sabre and the white hair, he wonders whether Kakashi is the
Konoha
's famed "
White Fang
", only to realise that he is just his son. As Obito questions why Kakashi would come and save him, Taiseki uses his camouflage technique once more and sneaks up on Obito; Kakashi attempts to save him but ends up getting his left eye slashed. As Kakashi reels in pain, Taiseki rushes towards Obito, only for Obito to turn around and stab him with a kunai. Kakashi and Taiseki wonder how Obito was able to see the latter, and Obito realises that he has finally awoken his
Sharingan
. Using the med-kit given by Rin, Kakashi bandages his left eye and the two head inside the cave to save Rin.

Inside the cave, Obito is able to use his Sharingan to keep up with Kakashi and avoid being struck by Kakkō, and the duo manage to defeat him. As they rush to free Rin, Kakkō uses the opportunity to
cause a cave-in
. As
Team Minato
 attempt to run out of the cave, Kakashi is struck by a falling rock. Obito picks Kakashi up and notices a big boulder above their head, and throws Kakashi out of the way, taking the brunt of the boulder's impact on himself. As Kakashi and Rin come to, they discover Obito pinned underneath the boulder, the entire left side of his body crushed. Kakashi begins to cry, as he believes he could have prevented this had he chosen to follow Obito at the beginning and that it did not matter that he was
jōnin
 and thus captain of the team. Remembering that he had not given Kakashi a gift for his promotion, he asks Rin to transplant his left Sharingan into Kakashi's left eye socket. With the transplant completed, Kakashi rushes outside the cave and uses his White Light Chakra Sabre to attack Kakkō. As Kakkō destroys the blade, Kakashi uses his
Chidori
 to strike the Iwa-nin and kills him. As the other Iwa-nin arrive, one of them uses his
Earth Release: Tearing Earth Turning Palm
 cause the entire cave to collapse; Kakashi escapes with Rin as Obito is buried in the rubble, where he muses in his last moments that he is saddened to die right when he and Kakashi had finally begun to get along and that he never told Rin that he loved her. Outside, Kakashi and Rin are ambushed by the surrounding Iwa-nin, and Kakashi tells Rin to flee while he fights them off, as he had promised Obito that he would protect Rin with his life. Kakashi tells Rin that Obito had loved her and that she was everything to him, as Rin attempts to tell Kakashi that she has feelings for him. As Kakashi prepares his Chidori, they are saved by the arrival of
Minato
, who uses his
Flying Thunder God Technique
 to defeat all of their enemies.

As he comes to, Kakashi asks how Minato had arrived to save them and Minato reveals that the marking on the
Flying Thunder God Kunai
 he had given Kakashi allows him to teleport to that location; he also adds that Rin had told him what had transpired. Following the destruction of the Kannabi Bridge, the
Third Hokage
 declared that two heroes were born that day, each with their own Sharingan. Obito had received his own memorial as a
shinobi
 who had died during the
Third Shinobi World War
 while Kakashi earned the moniker "Kakashi of the Sharingan".

Trivia

This episode aired alongside
episode 119
.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Kakashi Hatake
Kazuhiko Inoue
井上 和彦
Inoue Kazuhiko
Dave Wittenberg
Obito Uchiha
Sosuke Komori
小森 創介
Komori Sōsuke
Vic Mignogna
Rin
Haruhi Terada
寺田 はるひ
Terada Haruhi
Stephanie Sheh
Minato Namikaze
Toshiyuki Morikawa
森川 智之
Morikawa Toshiyuki
Tony Oliver
Narration
Hidekatsu Shibata
柴田 秀勝
Shibata Hidekatsu
Steve Kramer
Iwa-nin Kakkō
Tomoyuki Shimura
志村 知幸
Shimura Tomoyuki
Henry Dittman
Iwa-nin Taiseki
Kanji Suzumori
鈴森 勘司
Suzumori Kanji
Kirk Thornton
Konoha shinobi
Kenichiro Matsuda
Takafumi Kawakami
Tomoyoshi Fukazu
松田 健一郎
川上 貴史
深津 智義
Matsuda Ken'ichirō
Kawakami Takafumi
Fukazu Tomoyoshi
Patrick Seitz
Steve Kramer
Grant George