"
Kakashi Chronicles ~ Boys' Life on the Battlefield ~ Part 1
" (
カカシ外伝～戦場のボーイズライフ～前編
,
Kakashi Gaiden ~ Senjō no Bōizuraifu ~ Zenpen
) is episode 119 of the
Naruto: Shippūden
 anime.

Synopsis

Obito Uchiha
 rushes to a clearing where his teammate
Kakashi Hatake
 admonishes him for being late, declaring that the
shinobi
 rules of conduct state that a shinobi is to be on time. The
team
's leader,
Minato Namikaze
, tells them they have a new mission, and that since Kakashi has just become a
jōnin
, he would be leading himself, Obito and their other teammate
Rin Nohara
 while he goes on his own mission. In order to celebrate Kakashi's promotion, Minato gives Kakashi a
Flying Thunder God Kunai
 while Rin gives him a specially made medic-kit. Obito, however, has forgotten to bring a gift for Kakashi and is vexed when Kakashi states that it would have been useless anyways.

Minato tells them that as they are involved in a
war
,
Iwagakure
 has invaded
Kusagakure
 near the
Land of Fire
 and that Kakashi's team are to destroy the
Kannabi Bridge
 in order to cripple their efforts. Meanwhile, he would engage in combat in the front lines in order to provide a suitable distraction. On their way, Kakashi spots
Mahiru
, an Iwa-nin who is conducting surveillance. Minato notices that Mahiru has employed about twenty
shadow clones
 while Kakashi tells him that he has a new technique that should be able to deal with them all. With his
Chidori
, Kakashi plows through the shadow clones and rushes towards the real Mahiru; however, Kakashi's Chidori causes him to have tunnel vision and thus does not see Mahiru
pull out a sword
. Before Mahiru can kill Kakashi, Minato manages to save him from the blow whilst simultaneously marking Mahiru's foot, although Kakashi ends up being slashed near his underarm.

As Rin tends to Kakashi's wounds, Minato uses his
Flying Thunder God Technique
 to appear before Mahiru, placing a
kunai
 next to the Iwa-nin's throat. Mahiru expresses his regret for recognising Minato as the famed "Konoha's Yellow Flash" and for not retreating as per Iwagakure's rules; Minato then kills Mahiru. As they camp that night, Obito expresses his displeasure of being a failure from the elite
Uchiha Clan
 while having to deal with Kakashi's genius. Minato reveals that Kakashi is the way he is because his father
Sakumo
, who was known as the "Konoha's White Fang", had once broken the law by choosing to save the lives of his comrades over completing the mission and was thus vilified by both the village and the very friends he had saved. Unable to cope, Sakumo took his own life. Since then, Kakashi had chosen never to speak of his father and vowed to uphold the rules and regulations of the shinobi world.

The following morning, Minato sets off on his own mission while Obito decides to pledge his loyalty to his new captain, Kakashi, much to the team's surprise. On their way to the bridge, they are spotted by
two

enemies
 from Iwa. While one of them distracts Kakashi and Obito, the other uses a
camouflage technique
 to abduct Rin. Obito claims that they should go and save Rin, only for Kakashi to remind him that the law is to complete the mission even at the expense of their comrades, and that they should not let emotions cloud their judgment. Obito declares that he will not follow Kakashi's orders, and as he walks away, he tells Kakashi that he personally views the White Fang as a hero; he also adds that while shinobi who break the rules are considered scum, those who abandon their friends are worse than scum. The duo then part their separate ways.

Trivia

This episode aired alongside
episode 120
.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Kakashi Hatake
Kazuhiko Inoue
井上 和彦
Inoue Kazuhiko
Dave Wittenberg
Obito Uchiha
Sosuke Komori
小森 創介
Komori Sōsuke
Vic Mignogna
Rin
Haruhi Terada
寺田 はるひ
Terada Haruhi
Stephanie Sheh
Minato Namikaze
Toshiyuki Morikawa
森川 智之
Morikawa Toshiyuki
Tony Oliver
Iwa-nin Kakkō
Tomoyuki Shimura
志村 知幸
Shimura Tomoyuki
Henry Dittman
Iwa-nin Taiseki
Kanji Suzumori
鈴森 勘司
Suzumori Kanji
Kirk Thornton
Iwa-nin Mahiru
Daisuke Endo
遠藤 大輔
Endō Daisuke
Michael Yurchak