"
Kakashi's Sacred Place!!
" (
カカシの聖地!!
,
Kakashi no Seichi!!
) is chapter 3 of the
Konoha Shinden
 manga.

Summary

Kakashi
 and
Guy
 compete at a target-throwing booth while
Mirai
 keeps watch outside, worried that they're too conspicuous. She's partly glad when neither of them manage to hit a single target, but she also wonders how Kakashi, the former
Hokage
, could miss every throw. As they walk through town, a pickpocket steals Kakashi's wallet. Kakashi catches the thief, but he manages to pass the wallet to his cohort, who runs off. Mirai pursues and stops the second thief using
Demonic Illusion: Tree Binding Death
. When she returns to Kakashi and Guy, Mirai takes some blame for allowing the pickpocket to get close to them at all, but urges them to be more aware of their surroundings. Kakashi doesn't feel it was a big deal, pointing out to Mirai that the wallet was a decoy: instead of money, it contains only a message to the pickpocket discouraging theft. Mirai is disappointed that her efforts were so unnecessary, but remains doubtful that someone like Kakashi could have once been Hokage.

Mirai briefly loses track of Kakashi and finds him crying next to a lone tree. Mirai is confused by this display of emotion, which Guy (also crying) reports to be because the site is "sacred" and that Kakashi has wanted to visit for years. Mirai wonders if this was the objective for their mission and begins approaching Kakashi to comfort him, only for Kakashi to announce with ecstasy that this tree is featured in the film adaptation of
Icha Icha Paradise
. Based on the title, Mirai assumes the book is trashy, but since it's supposed to be Kakashi's favourite book she wonders if it has greater depth than the title suggests. She asks if she should read the book, but Kakashi and Guy proclaim she is too young and refuse to even summarise the book's plot to her. In place of a book, Guy recommends an exercise video to Mirai. As he and Kakashi argue over the video's merits, Mirai wonders if they've always been like this, and if perhaps her
father
 would have accompanied them if he were still alive.

While returning to the town, Mirai hears Guy sympathizing with Kakashi, because only by filing paperwork for a fake secret mission is he ever allowed to go on vacations like this. Mirai is stunned, as the
Seventh Hokage
 assigned her to this mission in place of keeping her as his bodyguard; she wonders what this says about the Seventh's opinion of her abilities.