This article uses
Creative Commons licensed
 content from
revision 175886437
 of
Wikipedia
's
Kakashi Gaiden
 article.

The list of authors can be seen in the
page history
 there.





Team Minato.



Kakashi Gaiden
 (
カカシ外伝
,
Viz:
 Kakashi Chronicles,
literally meaning:
 Kakashi Side Story), known as
The Kakashi Side Story ~ A Boy's Life on the Battlefield ~
 (
カカシ外伝～戦場のボーイズライフ～
,
Kakashi Gaiden ~Senjō no Bōizu Raifu~
) in the anime, is an
arc
 of the series, which functions as an intermission between Parts I and II of the manga. It was later adapted into two
Shippūden
 episodes:
119
 and
120
. This arc explores how
Kakashi Hatake
 gained his
Sharingan
. In the manga, it is preceded by the
Sasuke Recovery Mission
 and followed by the
Kazekage Rescue Mission
. In the anime, this arc takes place in the middle of the
Itachi Pursuit Mission
.

Synopsis

In the midst of the
Third Shinobi World War
, at a team meeting to hear about their new mission, Kakashi received gifts of a
Flying Thunder God Kunai
 from
Minato
 and a medical pack from
Rin
 for his advancement to
jōnin
.
 His other teammate,
Obito
, in addition to being late (supposedly from helping an old woman), had forgotten to bring a gift, and became annoyed at Kakashi when he dismissed whatever he would've given him as useless. Obito boasted that, once he awakened his Sharingan, the
kekkei genkai
 of the Uchiha clan, he would finally surpass Kakashi.
 Minato told his team their mission: they must travel through Kusagakure in the midst of a conflict between
Iwagakure
 and
Konohagakure
 to destroy a bridge so as to stop them from receiving their supplies.
 Along the way, the Konoha ninja noticed that they were being watched from the trees by
Mahiru
, an Iwagakure ninja. Kakashi saw this as a good time to try out his new technique, the
Chidori
, although Minato warned him about being hasty.





Minato intervening to save Kakashi from the katana attack.



Kakashi rushed off to attack their hidden foe. Mahiru, however, used the
Shadow Clone Technique
, creating multiple identical clones of himself that Kakashi uselessly attacked. Mahiru used the mayhem he had created to attack Obito, who was paralysed by fright, but Minato rescued him from harm.
 Meanwhile, Kakashi was being attacked by the real Mahiru, who buried his katana deep into Kakashi's right shoulder. Kakashi narrowly escaped death with a well-timed diving tackle by Minato, who attached a special tag onto Mahiru's foot in the process.
 Assured of the team's well-being, and having transported them a safe distance away, Minato left Rin to care for Kakashi's wound, and instantly teleported behind Mahiru using his famed
Flying Thunder God Technique
.
 Mahiru was shocked to have faced "Konoha's Yellow Flash" (
木ノ葉の黄色い閃光
,
Konoha no Kiiroi Senkō
), and, before he died, regretted that he hadn't obeyed the "flee on sight" order given by his village if anyone was unfortunate enough to encounter Minato.

Minato returned to find the team at each others' throats, with Kakashi calling Obito a coward for hesitating on the battlefield and the latter criticising Kakashi for blindly rushing into battle. Minato told Kakashi to never again use the Chidori, because of its inherent flaw: Kakashi's eyes were not fast enough to see his opponent's counterattack, putting him in great danger.
 After criticising Obito for speaking without thinking, Minato decided that rest was in order. Disturbed by the day's events and by Kakashi's abrasive behaviour, Obito was unable to sleep, and sought out Minato to ask him why Kakashi acted the way he did. Minato told him of how Kakashi's legendary father,
Sakumo Hatake
, who had also been known as "Konoha's White Fang" (
木ノ葉の白い牙
,
Konoha no Shiroi Kiba
), had killed himself after the village had looked down on him for rescuing his teammates rather than completing his mission.
 From that point forward, Kakashi had adopted a mentality strictly adhering to the
rules of the shinobi
, which stressed the elimination of emotions and utter concentration on completing one's mission. Minato then urged Obito to try to understand Kakashi, and not to hate him.

After Rin used her medical abilities to heal Kakashi's wounds, Minato told the team that they had to split up. Minato headed off alone, leaving the group to be led by Kakashi. Obito, touched by Minato's words the night before, accepts Kakashi as the leader, surprising both Kakashi and Rin. Kakashi then led his team further into Rock territory in order to accomplish their objective. However two Iwagakure ninja,
Kakkō
 and
Taiseki
 appeared in search of
Mahiru
, and ambushed the trio.
 They managed to capture Rin before fleeing.
 Obito told Kakashi that he was going after Rin, but Kakashi, as the team leader, decided that they should complete their mission without detouring to protect a friend. Obito then punched Kakashi, telling him that his father had been a true hero when he had decided to protect his friends.
 Obito then went off on his own to save Rin while Kakashi walked the opposite way.






Kakashi saving Obito from Taiseki.



Minato arrived to help the demoralised and heavily outnumbered Konoha ninja in battle by using his Flying Thunder God Technique to decimate the opposing army's numbers.
 Elsewhere in
Kusagakure
, Obito's words pressed heavily upon Kakashi's conscience, while Obito found out where the Iwagakure ninja were hiding Rin. But, as Obito plotted his plan of action, Taiseki, having observed Obito's appearance, sneaked behind Obito using the
Hiding with Camouflage Technique
.
 Before Taiseki was able to strike Obito however, Kakashi arrived, initially claiming that he had believed that Obito could not handle the situation on his own. He successfully deflected an attack that would have been otherwise fatal against Obito, but lost his left eye in the process. Obito was frightened and began to cry, but eventually regained his focus and activated his
Sharingan
 for the first time.
 Using it, he was now able to see his invisible attacker and kill him.






Obito telling Rin and Kakashi to escape as he dies.



Kakashi bandaged up his eye, and he and Obito approached the cave to save the weakening Rin from Kakkō, the remaining Iwagakure ninja. Using their skills and teamwork, and Obito's new Sharingan, they struck Kakkō in the shoulder and saved Rin. However, the battle had weakened the cave, and, in a last ditch effort to defeat the young shinobi, Kakko caused the cave to crumble in upon itself.
 With rocks falling all around the Konoha ninja, Obito threw Kakashi out of the way of a falling rock, which landed on him instead, and crushed the entire right side of his body. Mortally wounded, and knowing that he's dying, He told Rin to remove his remaining left eye, and offered it - along with the Sharingan - to Kakashi, as a final gift and belated present to Kakashi for being promoted to jōnin.
 Kakashi began to be conscienced and started to cry, believing himself unworthy to lead the group, but Obito told Kakashi that he was a great ninja, and that he could become Kakashi's eye and help them all live on. A short time passed, and Kakashi emerged from the rubble as a holder of the Sharingan, and a new scar.






Minato, Kakashi and Rin succeed in destroying Kannabi Bridge.



When Kakashi emerged, he attacked Kakkō and managed to kill him using his newly perfected Chidori.
 More Iwagakure ninja arrived and caused a further cave-in.
 Rin and Kakashi were forced to leave Obito behind as the rubble enveloped him. Enraged, Kakashi went to fight his opponents. He activated his Chidori and prepared the special kunai given to him by Minato. Before the enemies attacked him, Kakashi threw the kunai, and then passed out due to a lack of chakra.
 Kakashi awakened to find their enemies defeated and Minato beside him. Minato explained that the special kunai he had given Kakashi had alerted him when it was thrown.
 Minato then apologised for not arriving sooner. The remaining team members cherished their memories of Obito, and went on to destroy the bridge.

From that point forward, Kakashi would become famous amongst all the five countries as "Copy Ninja Kakashi" (
コピー忍者のカカシ
,
Kopī Ninja no Kakashi
), thanks to the gift Obito had given him.
 It was also revealed that, in the years that followed that Kakashi adopted some of Obito's traits such as losing track of time, mainly because of his frequent visits to the
Memorial Stone
 and giving excuses that were similar to the ones Obito had given, as well as adopting Obito's belief that teamwork takes priority over following the rules. Kakashi visits the memorial stone located near the training grounds every morning in Obito's honour, making him late for almost everything.

Promotional Material

As with many movies in the series, the two anime episodes of this arc are available in an
ani-manga
 version. It was released in Japan on June 4, 2010 (
ISBN 978-4-08-874838-2
).

Chapters

#

English title

Publication cover date

Volume number

239

"
Side Story 1: Mission Start…!!
"

6 December 2004

27

240

"
Side Story 2: Teamwork!!
"

13 December 2004

27

241

"
Side Story 3: A True Hero
"

1 January 2005

27

242

"
Side Story 4: The Crybaby Ninja
"

8 January 2005

27

243

"
Side Story 5: Gift
"

13 January 2005

27

244

"
Side Story Final Story: The Hero of the Sharingan
"

22 January 2005

27

Episodes

#

Episode Title

Japanese Airdate

English Airdate

119

"
Kakashi Chronicles ~ Boys' Life on the Battlefield ~ Part 1
"

30 July 2009

10 April 2012

120

"
Kakashi Chronicles ~ Boys' Life on the Battlefield ~ Part 2
"

30 July 2009

10 April 2012

Trivia

Portions of this arc were re-used as flashbacks in Kakashi's reflections in the movie
Naruto Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire
.

In the Japanese version of
Shippūden
 episode 343
, some of the dialogue from footage of
Shippūden
 episodes 119 and 120 by Kakashi and Obito is re-dubbed by their new, more youthful sounding voice actors.

References