Kamui's Dimension.



Kamui's Dimension
 (
神威の時空間
,
Kamui no Jikūkan
,
literally meaning:
 Kamui's time–space dimension)
 is an alternate space that was created by
Obito Uchiha
's
Mangekyō Sharingan
.

Kakashi Hatake
's and Obito's
Kamui
 share this same dimension when teleporting objects, due to the fact that each has one of Obito's eyes.
 This is further evidenced by the fact that objects warped by the former ability were still able to interact with Obito, despite his otherwise comprehensive "
intangibility
". Prior to learning the reason of this connection, Kakashi exploited it to injure Obito, still under the guise of Tobi, during the
Fourth Shinobi World War
.

Due to the two eyes being the only known pathways into and out of this dimension, there seems to be no other way of escaping it.
 With the destruction of both of Obito's eyes and his departure to the
Pure Land
, the path to this dimension is now sealed off.

Appearance

The location was first observed once Obito, as Tobi, transported both
Sasuke Uchiha
 and
Karin
 there after their battle at the
Five Kage Summit
, where it was shown to be composed from an innumerable amount of randomly arranged and differently sized rectangular prisms amongst a dark and seemingly endless void.
 Obito has also apparently stored numerous
giant shuriken
 as well as
black receivers
 and gigantic
kunai
 inside the dimension which he can launch at the opponent in quick succession.

Trivia

In
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Impact
, Obito has demonstrated the ability to manipulate the various box structures of this dimension to
attack
 individuals trapped there.

In the anime, the box structures are shown to be constructed of earthen material, as Kakashi was able to use them as a medium for
earth

techniques
.

It seems that everything entering this dimension arrive at the same box structure, as the both times Kakashi warped attacks into the dimension that hit Obito, his lightning-imbued kunai and Naruto's clone with a Rasengan, Obito was also there to take the attack despite his intangibility.

References