Kara's Dimension.



This is a dimension where the organisation
Kara
's base of operations lie. It cannot be accessed by normal means, requiring either
shinjutsu
,
space–time ninjutsu
 or
special gates
 scattered in numerous locations on
Earth
 for Kara to use.

Overview

Outside of the Kara hideout is a barren wasteland with a dark clouded sky. There are wall carvings that represent three
Ōtsutsuki Clan
 pairings:
Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki
 and
Kinshiki Ōtsutsuki
,
Kaguya Ōtsutsuki
 and
Isshiki Ōtsutsuki
, and a third pair of unknown Ōtsutsuki symbols which are damaged and unrecognisable, showing that the clan have history here. Pressing each of the symbols will conjure a hologram of the respective Ōtsutsuki. In the anime, standing on the platform that projects the hologram after activation causes the hologram to "attack" whoever is on the platform. Below the platform is a containment pen holding Isshiki's
Ten-Tails
, which he hopes to use to cultivate a chakra fruit.

Within the hideout is a training ground that Kara can use to train or test out their
Shinobi-Ware
. There is also lab which
Amado
 uses to conduct his work, such as examining the body modifications of the other members and making sure they are working properly. When not on duty, there is a dining room for the Inners. In the anime,
Jigen
 also has his own wine bar.

Elsewhere in the dimension is a massive crater that Isshiki has prepared as a battlefield, concealing the bottom half of a gigantic
sealing coffin
 beneath the earth and the top half in the sky, far above the clouds. Jigen will transport enemies to this location and leave them to die, or trap them in the coffin to be killed later at his leisure.

Kara can alter the coordinates of the dimension, thus preventing others from accessing it if they did so with the previous coordinates. After Isshiki's death,
Code
 disabled all the Space-Time Gates to prevent intruders from entering the dimension. However, having placed his
Claw Marks
 at the location beforehand, he retains access himself, and remains concerned that Boruto or Kawaki, as full Ōtsutsuki, could soon master space–time ninjutsu to access it as well. Three years later, Boruto would soon be able to access the dimension through the
Flying Thunder God Technique
, having placed one of
Koji Kashin
's
artificial toads
 holding a pin with the technique formula on Code in a meeting prior.