This article is about the mother of the Sand Siblings. For the anime only technique, see
Fire Release Cooperation Technique: Garuda
. For other uses, see
Garuda
.

Karura
 (
加流羅
) was a citizen of
Sunagakure
 and the wife of
Rasa
, the Fourth
Kazekage
.

Background






Karura and a premature Gaara.



Karura bore Rasa three children:
Temari
 and
Kankurō
 prior to being pregnant with their youngest child:
Gaara
. Apparently against her husband's wishes, Karura was forced to allow the
tailed beast

Shukaku
 to be sealed within their unborn son.
 This came at a very steep cost as Gaara's premature birth was also marked by her untimely death.
 Before her death, however, with her medical team unable to save her, and her heart rate failing rapidly, Karura requested to see her child. Seeing how small and feeble the young Gaara was, Karura declared her desire to protect him at all cost as she cradled him before passing away.

Personality

Karura was a kind and gentle woman who cared deeply for her family.

Appearance

Karura had shoulder-length, sandy-brown hair which framed her kind-looking face, and indigo-coloured eyes. She wore a simple outfit along with a long, light yellow scarf draped loosely around her neck.

Abilities

Through her strong will to protect her premature son, Karura was able to imbue her
chakra
 into Gaara's
sand
. This causes it to automatically move to protect him whenever he is in danger; even from himself.
 When the shield is in full effect, Gaara's sand takes on Karura's appearance.

Legacy






Gaara's shield of sand in Karura's image.



Originally, due to his maternal uncle
Yashamaru
 reluctantly lying to his nephew on his brother-in-law's behalf to test him, Gaara was under the impression that Karura was sacrificed to ensure he became a jinchūriki and that her final words were of him to become the tool of her revenge on Sunagakure. She supposedly named him after the phrase "a self-loving carnage" (
我を愛する修羅
,
Ware wo ai suru shura
). This caused Gaara to develop a warped ideology of love. But during the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, Gaara learned the truth of his father's deception and how Karura truly died.
 Because of her dying wish to protect her son, both the Fourth Kazekage and Yashamaru believe that her will now lives on in the sand that protects Gaara rather than being a manifestation of Shukaku's chakra.

Trivia

Karura's name is written with three kanji: the kanji for "to add," "to increase" (
加
), the kanji for "flow," "stream" (
流
), and the kanji for "gauze" (
羅
). The last kanji is the same as the final kanji in
Gaara
's name and can be taken as an abbreviation of the word "carnage" (
修羅
,
shura
) or the word
"Mara"
 (
魔羅
,
Mara
, a Buddhist demon that personifies the "death" of spiritual life). Together, the name can be interpreted as "the demon who adds to the flow [of sand or hatred]".

When written as 迦楼羅, "karura" is the Japanese name for
Garuda
.

In chapters
547
 and
548
, Karura's name is written as 加瑠羅 instead of 加流羅. Both 瑠 and 流 can be used to write the Japanese word for
lapis lazuli
 (
瑠璃, 琉璃
,
ruri
), a semi-precious stone with strong symbolic value in Buddhism. It is thought to have healing and strengthening properties and represents
Bhaiṣajyaguru
, the Buddha of Medicine, known as Yakushi-nyōrai (
薬師如来
) in Japan.

Quotes

(To
Gaara
) "
What a small, feeble child… No matter what happens, I'll always protect you! Gaara…!
"

References