This article is about the chapter.  For other uses, see
Kawaki (disambiguation)
.

"
Kawaki Uzumaki
" (
うずまきカワキ
,
Uzumaki Kawaki
) is chapter 24 of the
Boruto: Two Blue Vortex
 manga.

Summary

A flashback commences of
Boruto
's conversation with
Kawaki
 on top of the
Hokage Rock
. Boruto instructs Kawaki to head to
Sunagakure
 after his limiters are removed by
Amado
. Boruto will arrive after he does, which will most likely cause
Jura
 to appear, but with Kawaki's presence, they will have a fighting chance. Kawaki notes that Jura is a monster and simply fighting him with numbers would not be enough. Boruto throws one of his metal symbols that Kawaki catches, explaining that their intention is to not defeat Jura, but to survive against him, and the best chance they have is to escape with the
Flying Thunder God technique
. However, there are conditions Boruto must fulfill in order to teleport long distances. By his admission, he will be unable to fulfill those conditions while he is fighting Jura, and as the scene cuts back to the present, Kawaki accepts that his role is to buy him time.

Kawaki activates his
Kāma
 as Jura charges towards him, firing a
Tailed Beast Ball
, but Kawaki
absorbs
 it. Jura appears behind him to attack, but Kawaki dodges by
shrinking himself
, and responds with
summoning large cubes
 to rain down on Jura. Kawaki engages into close-range combat with Jura and he seems to be holding his own. Using his bo-staff, Kawaki
channels his chakra and fires a close-range blast
, leaving a hole in Jura's waist. Kawaki creates more holes in Jura's body and sends him flying into a rock formation. While levitating in the air, Boruto calms himself down as his Kāma is resonating with Kawaki's, but it disappears as Kawaki deactivates his Kāma. Amado and
Sumire Kakei
 are watching the battle through Kawaki's eyes, and Sumire is impressed that Kawaki is doing so well against Jura. Amado shows a degree of concern.

Jura pulls a book from one of his
Claw Marks
 and flips through it, noting Kawaki's large increase in combat ability since their last encounter.
Himawari Uzumaki
's sudden growth was also mentioned, as well as
Sarada Uchiha
's, with Sumire surprised to hear about Sarada awakening a
new power
. Jura theorizes that these incidents all seem to have a common cause: the topic of love, which he is currently researching. Love seems to serve as not only a fatal weakness for humans, but also a factor that can influence extraordinary evolution. Jura asks Kawaki for his opinion, but Kawaki simply states that he talks alot,
blasting him close-range
. As the smoke clears, several large branches of
Wood Release
 emerge that envelop Jura, seemingly healing his injuries, as well as his right eye that Kawaki stabbed through before. Treating the branches as a throne, Jura comments on Kawaki's unusual actions of protecting Boruto, stating that the only person he should care about protecting is
Naruto Uzumaki
. Jura was surprised to hear about Naruto's death when he visited
Konohagakure
 before, but judging the look in Kawaki's eyes, he realizes that Naruto is alive, with Kawaki's expression confirming it. Jura proclaims his desire to devour Naruto, knowing he shares a deep bond with all of the
Tailed Beasts
, and he wonders if he can learn more about love by devouring him. As a riled-up Kawaki prepares to attack again, he is interrupted by Boruto, who states that he got a lock on the symbol and its time to go. Jura accepts their escape, but before they can leave, Kawaki tells Boruto that he has something to say first. Kawaki comments that while he doesn't care about love, he gives Jura credit for having the intuition to set his sights on Naruto, also vowing to kill Jura by his own hand. As Jura states to Kawaki that he's glad they got a chance to talk, Boruto and Kawaki leave.

Meanwhile,
Konohamaru Sarutobi
,
Mitsuki
,
Delta
, and the still unconscious
Sarada Uchiha
 are waiting around with Boruto's symbol on the ground. Delta was given instructions to leave it in the area, as it is hard for Boruto to sense its chakra if someone is holding it. She instructs Konohamaru and Mitsuki to take some steps back as it would be pitiful if they were to get stepped on. Suddenly, Kawaki and Boruto appear, with Kawaki stepping on Konohamaru's face. Boruto confirms that Konohamaru is still holding onto
Matsuri's
 Thornbulb, and the group prepares to head back to Konohagakure.

Ada
 states to
Koji Kashin
 that things have turned out well and they should be able to breathe easy, but Koji disapproves Boruto's actions, as they were too risky and there was a good chance that even the good futures would have been destroyed. Koji states that while Boruto surviving is a good thing, his actions had greatly shifted the future again. Ada denounces Koji's concerns as this is how life is supposed to usually work, but Koji reveals that
Mamushi
 is about to make his move and she is his target, much to Ada's disgust.

At the
Human God Tree
's base,
Hidari
 notices Jura's facial expression and asks if he is feeling sick. Jura is feeling proud that Kawaki paid him a compliment. Hidari flips through his book and states that he recently learned a modern phrase that would be appropriate to use right now: "totally ick".