"
Kawaki's Cover Blown?!
" (
カワキ、正体発覚！？
,
Kawaki, Shōtai Hakkaku!?
) is episode 267 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

The class rehearses a play about the
Sannin
 for an upcoming festival, in which
Kawaki
 plays
Katsuyu
.
Eiki
, playing
Jiraiya
, mocks him.
Kae
, who plays
Tsunade
, is excited about it.
Osuka
, who's playing
Orochimaru
, feels she is better suited to play the
Fourth Hokage
, who everyone picked
Himawari
 to play over being his granddaughter. Himawari praises Osuka's Orochimaru performance. To make their performances more convincing, Osuka asks everyone to bring a mock
forehead protector
. As they leave the
Academy
, another
Konoha
 shinobi takes over watching Kae. The next day,
Sōsha
 publishes a story about Eiki reading one of Jiraiya's
Icha Icha
 books to learn about his role. Embarrassed, Eiki rips the stories Sōsha handed out. Everyone puts on their forehead protectors, but Himawari forgot to bring one. Kawaki offers her his, but she refuses and tells him to hide it, as it could expose him as a
genin
, specially if Sōsha finds out. Eiki sees and overhears them, and tells Sōsha. They speculate the motive behind it, Eiki believing it to be nefarious. Sōsha asks about what proof he has, and Eiki shows a note sent to him anonymously, which is why he has kept a close eye on Kawaki.
 Sōsha needs more convincing proof, so Eiki tells her he'll get her Kawaki's forehead protector, and she hopes it's real so she can get a big scoop. After more rehearsals, Kawaki checks on Kae, who wonders why Orochimaru chose a path that lead away from his friends, herself wishing to stay with her friends in the Academy. Kawaki comforts her, and she gets excited to resume rehearsals. After she leaves, Kawaki addresses a hidden Eiki, admonishing for still being after Kae, and threatening to beat him up for real. Unable to steal the forehead protector through conventional means, he decides to take advantage of Kawaki's role of Katsuyu. Sōsha surprises Kawaki and Himawari, asking them about his forehead protector. They leave without answering, and join everyone else checking on the set, built primarily by
Neon
 with everyone's help. Sōsha brings her camera. In the rehearsal,
Ehō
 takes over the Jiraiya role, previously playing
Manda
, at Eiki's request, which Kawaki finds unusual. As they fight as Manda and Katsuyu, Eiki makes Kawaki drop his forehead protector, but he manages to hide it before Sōsha can photograph it, realising they're working together. Eiki improvises and gets Osuka to help him, improvising a
Summoning: Rashōmon
. Eiki grabs the forehead protector, but stands on the half-finished set, causing it to collapse. Kawaki protects him and Kae, and Eiki rushes to hand Sōsha the protector, but it turns out to be a mock one. Sōsha accuses him of trying to get to publish a fake story. Kawaki shows him how he destroyed the set. Eiki breaks down crying, as it wasn't his intent to ruin things for everyone. At Himawari's insistence, Kawaki reaches out to Eiki to fix the set, and is joined by Kae. Kawaki notices his actual forehead protector is still missing. Everyone helps fixing the set, Kawaki and Himawari stay late looking for his forehead protector. Osuka hands it to them, having looked out for them after overhearing Eiki and Sōsha, switching it out during the improvised Rashōmon summoning. Osuka claims it's to repay for helping when she was kidnapped, suspecting he had to re-enrol due to bad behaviour. After they leave, Eiki approaches them to apologise again, and shows them the note he received, claiming that Kawaki is a shinobi with a secret that would get him expelled, now believing it to be a prank. Kawaki wonders who would want him expelled, and rushes to see Kae in the infirmary. Two
Land of Bamboo
 officials discuss the country's succession, Kae's father plan to formally announce her as heir going against their plan to have her younger brother crowned. They decide to deploy an assassin. Kawaki reaches Kae just in time to stop an attempt, and the assassin escapes.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Kawaki
Yuma Uchida
内田 雄馬
Uchida Yūma
Himawari Uzumaki
Saori Hayami
早見 沙織
Hayami Saori
Kae Yukiwari
Inori Minase
水瀬 いのり
Minase Inori
Hana Kaka
Mai Nakahara
中原 麻衣
Nakahara Mai
Ehō Norimaki
Ryoko Shiraishi
白石 涼子
Shiraishi Ryōko
Yuina Itomaki
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Sōsha Amino
Yuka Saito
斉藤 佑圭
Saitō Yuka
Osuka Kamakura
Rina Hidaka
日高 里菜
Hidaka Rina
Neon Asakusa
Manaka Iwami
石見 舞菜香
Iwami Manaka
Harika Aburame
Tomo Muranaka
村中 知
Muranaka Tomo
Eiki Fūma
Takuto Yoshinaga
吉永 拓斗
Yoshinaga Takuto
Konashi Nerikiri
Kazutomi Yamamoto
山本 和臣
Yamamoto Kazutomi
Soul Tao
Akane Yamaguchi
山口 茜
Yamaguchi Akane
Mimi Inuzuka
Kaori Ishihara
石原 夏織
Ishihara Kaori
Doseki Ganryū
Daichi Hayashi
林 大地
Hayashi Daichi
Kande Inabikari
Yuki Inoue
井上 雄貴
Inoue Yūki
Kura Kageno
Yui Otagiri
小田切 優衣
Otagiri Yui
Ran Sōgi
Misuzu Yamada
山田 美鈴
Yamada Misuzu
Suzu Sōgi
Rin Aira
逢来 りん
Aira Rin
Minister
Kosuke Katayama
片山 公輔
Katayama Kōsuke
Minister's subordinate
Katsunori Okai
岡井 カツノリ
Okai Katsunori