"
Kernel
" (
因子
,
Inshi
) is chapter 10 of the
Boruto: Two Blue Vortex
 manga.

Summary

Jura
 wonders if
Team 10
 is running away to avoid damage to the village.
Konohamaru
 arrives with back-up, and is informed by
Shikamaru
 that they have fled with
Himawari
, who is the
God Trees
' target. Shikamaru wants
Kawaki
 to let
Boruto
 free, because he also considers the God Trees as enemies. Kawaki is more concerned about Himawari's safety, and flies off, followed by a complaining
Delta
. Shikamaru checks in with Boruto, who downplays his situation.
Hidari
 wonders why they're being interfered with, Jura telling him to ask them while he goes after Himawari. Hidari can't comprehend the
Konoha
 shinobi's attitude. Konohamaru checks with the
Konoha Barrier Team
, and is confused by their claim that the one in front of him has
Sasuke
's chakra signature.
Sarada
 and
Sumire
 arrive, Hidari immediately rushing to Sarada through
Claw Marks
 and striking her with
Chidori
. She dodges him and lands one of her own, puzzled by his use of Chidori.
Kurama
 introduces itself to Himawari, who asks if it's the one who existed inside her father, and where they are. Kurama explains they're nowhere real, exchanging words mind to mind because they're a single body and soul. In reality, Himawari is passed out. Jura is catching up to Team 10. Kurama confirms to Himawari that its previous self existed inside
Naruto
, but its life was extinguished, and explains that death isn't permanent for
tailed beasts
, a kernel of them eventually remanifesting somewhere.
 Kurama says there's no knowing where this might happen, or how long it might take, intrigued that it happened so soon, and in Naruto's daughter. It speculates if it was due to her being born with a fraction of its chakra, or a fate brought upon by being born of
Uzumaki
 and
Hyūga
 blood, but places more importance in that it happened, rather than on how. They are pleased to meet each other. Himawari wakes up, to Team 10's relief, and asks Kurama for help. Jura cuts off one of the bird's wings with a
Tailed Beast Ball
.
Chōchō
 has everyone grab onto her,
expands herself
, and bounces safely to the ground. Jura lands near them, complimenting their team-work once again, lamenting having to kill them. Kurama admonishes Himawari asking for help, saying she's the only one in a position to do anything, whether she squanders its chakra or not, noting that her affinity for it surpasses that of any of its previous hosts, even Naruto's. Encouraged by Kurama's words, Himawari attacks, but Jura casually breaks her right ankle.
Inojin
 attacks with a
beast drawing
, but it is also easily destroyed. Jura begins creating a tree around Himawari, which will turn her into nourishment for him. Inojin attacks, against
Shikadai
's warning, but is kneed in the gut, falling to the ground, Himawari asking him to stop. When Inojin still reaches to stop Jura, he creates a
tree
, which pierces Inojin's torso, to everyone's shock. Jura wonders if this is the "aesthetics" he read about. Himawari breaks free of the tree, her hair swinging out, thicker whisker marks, and eyes like Kurama's, more forcefully telling Jura to stop. Chōchō and Shikadai are intrigued, while her intensity piques Jura's interest. Kurama notes she has snapped, and looks forward to running amok some with her.