This article is about the swords. For the Konoha ninja, see
Kiba Inuzuka
.

Kiba
 (
牙
,
literally meaning:
 Fangs) is one of the mystical
swords
 of the
Seven Swordsmen of the Mist
, that has been passed down from generation to generation amongst the group's members since the
First Mizukage
's era.

History





Ameyuri wielding Kiba.



The swords' earliest known wielder was
Ameyuri Ringo
, were at some point were also utilised by
Mangetsu Hōzuki
 in his act of mastering all the Seven Swordsmen's blades. Kiri lost possession of the swords after
Raiga Kurosuki
 became a
Missing-nin
, and following his death, the swords remained at the bottom of a ravine in the
Land of Rivers
. Upon Kiba being collected by
Kabuto Yakushi
, he had the swords
stored
 within a scroll along with four of the seven Mist swords, which a
reincarnated
 Mangetsu possessed. When Kabuto had him summoned alongside the reincarnated Seven Swordsmen of the Mist during the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, Mangetsu
unsealed
 all the swords, leading to Kiba returning to Ameyuri's possession.

In the anime, after being trapped in a bottomless marsh, Ameyuri gives the blades to
Omoi
 as a thank-you gift from their exciting battle.
 After the war, the blades were returned to Kirigakure and stored into a vault along with the rest of Seven Ninja Swordsmen swords with the goal of training a new generation.
 Fifteen years later, a rebellious group proclaiming themselves the
New Seven Ninja Swordsmen
 stole the seven blades to start a revolution against the modernisation and peaceful era of Kirigakure, with Raiga's daughter,
Buntan Kurosuki
, taking Kiba.
 Soon after, she and her team was defeated, allowing the village to reclaim the swords. Later, as part of a work-release program, Buntan was allowed to wield the blades again on a mission to reduce her sentencing.

Appearance

Kiba is a pair of Taiji swords. Both have long, slim, and straight, double-edged blades. The blades also have an upward-curved bladed prong near the tip of one side of the blade and another one near the base of the blade's other side. At their bases are smooth brown hilts with a round, grey tsuba. When not in use, they are often kept wrapped in bandages.

Abilities

The swords have been imbued with
lightning
, granting enhanced cutting power in a manner similar to the high-frequency vibrations of lightning-based
chakra flow
, greatly increasing its penetrating power. It is this capability that has resulted in these "
thunderswords
" (
雷刀
,
raitō
) being claimed as the sharpest swords in existence.
 Even without lightning, they are very dangerous in battle, able to be used in combination with agile spinning movements, sweeping through the targets while the user also rotates. This, combined with the jagged nature of the blades, allows for more damaging wounds inflicted.





Chakra being imbued into Kiba to amplify it.



In the anime, the user can transform and manipulate lightning freely, able to use their Lightning Release techniques without hand seals. They also boost the user's attack power to the highest limit, which allows them to perform high-level Lightning Release techniques, and likewise requires only the smallest amount of chakra, thereby letting the wielder remained unhindered from repeated usage of Lightning Release. The blades can channel the user's own respective lightning techniques or can conduct natural lightning, able to launch it from the sky to strike anywhere within a large area. Likewise, as long as there is natural lightning to access, the user can battle continuously without tiring.

While meant to be used as a pair, the user can perform similarly with only a single blade. They can also be connected at the hilts to form a larger, jo staff-like and double-bladed weapon, increasing its range and versatility as a weapon.
 They are able to perform various powerful techniques, such as to manipulate the blades from afar, leaving their hands free while attacking the opponent at different directions simultaneously. Even from afar, the user can channel
chakra
 into the blades, amplifying them.

Utilised Techniques

Thunderswords Technique: Remote Control

Thunderswords Technique: Thunderbolt

Trivia

The Kiba are the first
anime-only
 weapons to be adapted into the manga; later, their début wielder, Raiga Kurosuki, was also adapted into the manga. However, during its original appearance in the anime with Raiga, the swords were depicted as two
ninjatō
. The blades were medium-length and singled-edged while having no
tsuba
. Its later depictions in the anime, since wielded by Ameyuri, were redesigned to remain consistent with the manga's design.

Studio Pierrot's Settei sheets of Kiba wielded by
Buntan Kurosuki
 show that the blades are 90 cm long.

In the anime, although
Omoi
 receives the swords from Ameyuri, he was never seen wielding or even carrying them afterwards.

Kiba's name and appearance is most likely based off of an old and rare style of Chinese sword of the same appearance and name.

See Also

Sword of the Thunder God

Weaknessless Soaring Shortswords

References