This article is about the Otogakure ninja.  For other uses, see
Kin
.

Kin Tsuchi
 (
キン・ツチ
) was a
kunoichi
 from
Otogakure
 and a member of
Team Dosu
 which took part in the
Chūnin Exams
 under orders from
Orochimaru
 to test
Sasuke Uchiha
's skills.

Personality

Like her teammates, Kin appeared to be overconfident in her abilities. She had a strong dislike towards girls like Sakura due to her apparent vanity for her hair and criticises her for focusing on her appearances rather than training, even going so far to call Sakura a female swine and “boy-chaser” in the manga. Like her teammate Zaku, she loses focus on her opponent's tactics when overconfident, as seen when she didn't recognise that Shikamaru could use the very thin shadow created by her wire strings against her when she boasted about her abilities. Kin also preferred to toy with her opponents by defeating them slowly and painfully, as stated by her during her fight with Shikamaru in the preliminaries.

Appearance






Kin's full appearance.



Kin had fair skin, black eyes, and very long black hair, almost reaching down to her calves, tied by a violet ribbon right near the end. She wore a
forehead protector
, a pale green vest somewhat similar to a
flak jacket
, snake-patterned pants with a snake-patterned skirt over it, and a snake-patterned scarf around her neck, much like her team-mates:
Dosu Kinuta
 and
Zaku Abumi
.

Abilities






Kin wielding her senbon.



Kin focused on the use of
senbon
 as part of her
fighting style
, which she could throw with great accuracy to strike at her opponent's vital points. She often attached bells to her senbon in order to
confuse and distract
 her opponents with the ringing of the bells. In the anime, she also used a
sound-based genjutsu
 activated by the ringing of the bells.

Part I

Chūnin Exams

Main article:
Chūnin Exams






Team Dosu before the exam.



Team Dosu
 travelled to
Konohagakure
 to participate in the
Chūnin Exams
 with the goal of killing
Sasuke Uchiha
. Before the exam started, Kin and her teammates overheard
Kabuto Yakushi
 talking about their village and decided to attack him. After attacking Kabuto, Team Dosu announced to the rest of the Konohagakure genin that they were defiantly going to pass the exam and all become chūnin. To prevent the situation from escalating, the exam proctors, led by
Ibiki Morino
, appear and settle things down. Afterwards, Kin passed the written portion of the Chūnin Exams and moved onto the second phase alongside her teammates. During the second phase of the exam, Dosu initiated the team's real mission of killing Sasuke. After several days in the
Forest of Death
, Team Dosu finds
Sakura
 alongside her injured teammates. Seeing an opportunity to kill Sasuke, Team Dosu attacked Sakura, activating her traps she had hidden. Easily getting passed the traps, Team Dosu was immediately attacked by
Rock Lee
.






Kin holding Sakura hostage.



After a short fight, Dosu defeated Lee, leaving Sakura to fight the Otogakure genin. Soon after Kin manage to immobilise Sakura by grabbing her hair, and in the process, criticise her on putting more effort on her appearance as opposed to her training. After finding confidence in herself, Sakura freed herself by cutting off her long hair with a kunai, leading to Kin to immediately attack her with her senbon but unintentionally attacked a
substitution
. Soon after, Zaku managed to defeat Sakura, leading to
Team 10
 to arrive and confront Team Dosu. After the fighting between the two teams broke out,
Ino Yamanaka
 used her
Mind Body Switch Technique
 on Kin and took over her body. With Ino in control of Kin's body, she demanded Team Dosu to hand over their scroll, using Kin's body as leverage. Zaku promptly attacked her, hurting both Kunoichi in the process and knocking Kin out for the remainder of the fight. After Sasuke woke up, he swiftly defeated Zaku leading to Dosu handing his teams scroll over to Team 7 and retreated with his teammates. After Kin and her team recovered, they manage to obtain both scrolls needed to proceed into the finals and passed the second phase of the test.






Kin catches Shikamaru in genjutsu.



After deciding to participate in the third stage preliminaries, Team Dosu reunited with
Orochimaru
, who was disguised as their Otogakure sensei. After watching several fights, she was matched against
Shikamaru Nara
. Shikamaru initially believed her trick to be a simple combination of needles with and without bells in order to make him less alert of the latter. Kin, however, followed through using her strings to ring a previously thrown bell, further confusing Shikamaru. Shikamaru countered, contracting his shadow and minimising it under the string attached to a needle she threw; she didn't notice that a string at that height would not be able to cast a shadow. Shikamaru then proceeded to use
Shadow Imitation Technique
 to make both of them throw a shuriken simultaneously. Still bound to Shikamaru's shadow, she was forced to mimic his actions and bent backwards to avoid the shuriken but was too close to the stadium's wall and hit her head, knocking her out in the process.

Konoha Crush

Main article:
Konoha Crush






Kin's death.



During the Konoha Crush, Orochimaru
summoned
 the
First
 and
Second
 Hokage, leading to the
Third
 to use the
Dead Demon Consuming Seal
 to seal the deceased Hokage. After successfully sealing the two at the cost of his life, it was revealed that Kin, along with Zaku had been used as sacrifices to summon the former Hokage souls.

In Other Media

Video Games

Kin Tsuchi is a playable character in the following video games:

Game name
Japanese release
English release
Naruto Mobile
2016
2016
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Blazing
14 July 2016
24 August 2016
Naruto: Konoha Senki
12 September 2003
Naruto: Shinobi Collection
2014
Naruto: Shinobi Collection Shippū Ranbu
27 July 2015

Trivia

Like all members of her team, Kin's name is a
sound word
, specifically that of a light sound. "Tsuchi" comes from tsuchikotsu (
槌骨
), the Japanese name of the
malleus
.

Kin is the only member of her team to not have a physical alteration.

In
Finally a clash! Jōnin vs. Genin!! Indiscriminate Grand Melee Tournament Meeting!!
, Kin stands beside
Hanabi Hyūga
 before the start of the event.

Like many of the other characters, Kin appeared in the omake at the end of
Naruto: Shippūden
 episode
129
, along with the rest of her team.

Quotes

(To
Shikamaru
) "
Don't ever ask for whom the bell tolls, because it tolls for thee.
"

References