Kinshiki Ōtsutsuki
 (
大筒木キンシキ
,
Ōtsutsuki Kinshiki
) was a member of the
Ōtsutsuki clan
's main family, who served as a guardian for his foster son
Momoshiki
.

Background

At some point, Kinshiki consumed his guardian's
chakra
 after they entrusted him with their power.

Personality

Kinshiki was very loyal and subservient to his foster son Momoshiki,
 to the extent that he offered himself to be changed into a
chakra fruit
 (or chakra pill in the movie) without hesitation. He also referred to his foster son using the honourific "
-sama
". Kinshiki also showed a vengeful side, as he was determined to kill
Sasuke Uchiha
 for cutting his horn off from their first battle. He has no regard for anyone other than Momoshiki; this is seen when he tried to kill Sasuke as he was trying to get his daughter to safety in the middle of the chaos Momoshiki and Kinshiki brought upon their arrival to Konoha.

As a result of his extreme power, Kinshiki was very noble and self-esteemed, traits Momoshiki also came to acquire. He is also adherent to his clan's tradition of gaining power through self-sacrifice, as he previously consumed his guardian's chakra and then offering himself to Momoshiki in turn.

Appearance






Kinshiki's full appearance.



Kinshiki had pale skin with short spiky blue-greyish hair, a full beard, and a long horn above his left eye that was later stubbed by Sasuke Uchiha. He had big hands and a burly physique accompanied with a towering height that reached over two metres.

He wore a pale blue shirt with back cuffs and a high collar over which he wore another darker appendage with a grey sash wrapped around his waist. He also wore grey pants and black, flat shoes on his feet which were upturned at the toes.

Abilities

Kinshiki was an extraordinarily powerful being who, alongside Momoshiki (and in the anime
Urashiki
), was deemed a threat greater than Kaguya. He was capable of restraining a
perfect

jinchūriki
, holding his own against multiple
Kage
-level opponents at the same time, and stalemating Sasuke Uchiha on multiple occasions.

Ninjutsu






Kinshiki using his created weapon.



Kinshiki possessed the ability to absorb any kind of
ninjutsu
 and transform the chakra into various
red glowing ninja tools
 at will, which he was proficient with handling.
 He could also fly and
sense
 chakra, being able to locate
fragments
 of Kaguya across
countries
.
 In the anime, Kinshiki was capable of using
Space–Time Ninjutsu
 to transport himself to a destination.
 He was also able to cloak himself in purple electricity.

Physical Prowess

Kinshiki possessed incredible strength and durability, as he could escape being
confined
 and
immobilised
 by two Kage. Sasuke attributed he was strengthening his muscles with some kind of technique.
 Despite being on the verge of death, he could cut down a
God Tree
 with a single slash of his halberd. Kinshiki was proficient in close-range combat and showed deceptive speed, being able to fight on par with Sasuke.

Byakugan

Kinshiki possessed the
Byakugan
,
 granting him telescopic vision, x-ray vision, a near 360° field of visual perception (with the presumed exception of a small blind spot at the upper thoracic vertebrae), and the ability to see the
chakra pathway system
 and its
tenketsu
.

New Era

Academy Entrance Arc

Main article:
Academy Entrance Arc






Kinshiki and Momoshiki prepare their departure to Earth.



In the anime, after investigating
Kaguya
's
world
, he reported to Momoshiki on an
unidentified planet
. He stated that he had observed substantial tears and that its space curvature had exceeded 16, an abnormality that she should have reported to their clan. Wondering whether Kaguya had betrayed the clan or been destroyed by her world's inhabitants, Momoshiki ordered him to prepare to depart.

Versus Momoshiki Arc

Main articles:
Boruto: Naruto the Movie
 and
Versus Momoshiki Arc






Kinshiki attacks Sasuke.



Kinshiki and Momoshiki encountered Sasuke, who had been travelling through another dimension to gather information on a threat greater than Kaguya. In a blizzard of another dimension, Kinshiki engaged in battle with his kanabō against Sasuke and his sword, battling Sasuke to a standstill despite Sasuke managing to cut off one of his horns. Sasuke eventually escaped after seeing Momoshiki and realising he couldn't take on both of them at once despite Kinshiki's attempts to stop him. Later, Momoshiki used his pills to transport the pair to
Earth
, where they begin searching for fragments of Kaguya's chakra. Their search lead them to
Killer B
, where they
immobilised
 and defeated him. Afterwards, Momoshiki's absorbed his chakra, as Kinshiki reports that there is a greater
source of chakra
 in the east, before departing there.

They appeared during the
Chūnin Exams
 in
Konohagakure
 and started creating chaos. Kinshiki destroyed the arena and attempted to attack Sasuke and his
daughter
.
Shikamaru Nara
 uses his
Shadow Sewing Technique
 to restrain Kinshiki and Momoshiki, but Momoshiki absorbs his power. After Momoshiki explained their goal to gather Kaguya's scattered chakra and cultivate it into a new '
cinnabar panacea
' in order to gain eternal youth and supernatural powers, Kinshiki fought Naruto and Sasuke, who combined
Kurama
 and
Susanoo
 to shield themselves. However, Kinshiki and Momoshiki successfully captured
Naruto Uzumaki
 when he allowed himself to be caught in their technique to protect his
son
, Sasuke, and Sarada.






Kinshiki defeated.



They took Naruto to
another dimension
 and bound him to begin the ritual of extracting Kurama from him, but the process proved to be too slow; Sasuke, Boruto, and the four other Kage
arrived
 to rescue him. Kinshiki fought against the other Kage and was initially captured by them, but broke free from their techniques. He then unleashed a powerful blast around them, causing massive destruction and severe injury to himself. To everyone's horror, Momoshiki turned Kinshiki into a
chakra pill
 and devoured him to increase his strength.

In Other Media

Video Games

Kinshiki Ōtsutsuki is a playable character in the following video games:

Game name
Japanese release
English release
Naruto Mobile
2016
2016
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 4
4 February 2016
9 February 2016
Naruto x Boruto: Ultimate Ninja Storm Connections
16 November 2023
17 November 2023

Trivia






Masashi Kishimoto's sketch of Kinshiki.



Masashi Kishimoto
's character sketch of Kinshiki shows him with normal-sized hands.

Like his cohorts Momoshiki and Urashiki, Kinshiki was named after a Japanese folk hero whose name includes "Tarō", in this case the legendary warrior
Kintarō
. His gigantic form and stern demeanour were also adapted from the folktale.

Kinshiki's attire and abilities also draw inspiration from the folkloric warrior monk
Benkei
, a retainer of
Minamoto no Yoshitsune
, who likewise inspired Momoshiki's design. According to folklore, Benkei sacrificed his life to protect Yoshitsune from his enemies while he commited
seppuku
, dying from countless wounds while standing upright. This is mirrored in Kinshiki's final sacrifice to grant Momoshiki more power.

References