Kirin
 is an extremely powerful
Lightning Release
 technique created by
Sasuke Uchiha
.

Overview

Sasuke draws natural lightning directly from thunder clouds to supplement the power of his strike and controls it with chakra. Unlike most techniques, which are based on the user's chakra, this one uses the natural lightning, which — as noted by Zetsu — reaches the ground in 1/1000th of a second. However, the preparation time required also decreases the technique's efficiency. If there are no active thunder clouds, the user must create them by using powerful
fire techniques
 to produce the necessary
storm conditions
. With techniques such as
Amaterasu
, even stronger storm conditions can be made by them.

Once a lightning source has been acquired, shaping and guiding the lightning to the target requires very little chakra. This technique was powerful enough to completely obliterate a
small mountain
 and
Itachi Uchiha
's
Susanoo
.

Using this technique disperses the thunder clouds, and as such, it can only be used once in a fight. Conversely, however, because of the inextinguishable properties of techniques such as Amaterasu, it can be used to continuously create new thunder clouds to use Kirin once again; however, the process seems to require a bit of time.

Influences

In Japanese mythology, the
Kirin
 is considered a holy creature, whose cry is a musical scale and whose footprints are perfect circles. It is very peaceful and careful, capable of walking on water and on grass without bending the blades. It doesn't eat meat either. It only appears in places ruled by a benevolent and wise leader and is well-known for punishing the wicked.

In Japan, the Kirin is considered as the most powerful and divine as opposed to the
Hōō
, the rulers of birds — and is usually placed above all other mythological creatures, including the
ryū
 and Hōō. It can live up to a millennium and wounding one or coming across its corpse is considered a bad omen.

Trivia

Kirin
 (
キリン
) is also the Japanese word for "
giraffe
".

In episode 51 of the
Naruto SD: Rock Lee no Seishun Full-Power Ninden
 anime, when Sasuke uses this technique, a giraffe appears instead of a dragon.

In the Ultimate Ninja Storm game series, Sasuke has three chances of hitting the opponent with lightning from the sky, which when hit, will execute Kirin.

The word "Kirin" (
麒麟
,
Chi: Qílín
) actually consists of two kanji where '麒' (
ki
,
Chi: qí
) is kanji for male Kirin and '麟' (
rin
,
Chi: lín
) is kanji for female Kirin.

In
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Heroes 3
, Sasuke can use Kirin using his
sword
.

In
Rock Lee's Springtime of Youth Full Power Ninja Chronicles
, Kirin is literally a giant giraffe head that descends from the sky, once to kiss Sasuke to activate his trump card and the second time just to say "Giraffe".

In chapter 309, when Sasuke was about to kill off Team 7, he took a stance similar to when he is about to use Kirin, but there were no thunderclouds or rain present. This is likely because Kishimoto had yet to design the concept for Kirin.

In a 2023 interview with
Sasuke Retsuden
 illustrator Shingo Kimura, Kimura said that Kishimoto told him the art for Kirin was produced using the outline function on his old copy machine to whiten the interiors of his lines, leaving only black outlines. Upon looking at the art, Kimura determined he had repeated the process three times. According to Kimura, Kishimoto replaced his copy machine with a newer model that lacked the function, which is why he didn't draw the technique again.

References