Kitsuchi
 (
黄ツチ
) is a
jōnin
 from
Iwagakure
.

Background

At some point, when it was discovered that a
spy
 had infiltrated their village, Kitsuchi and another shinobi found
Nanigashi
, who had intercepted the spy but failed to capture him.

Personality

Kitsuchi is a solemn, disciplined, adaptive and level-headed individual. He is calm under pressure, decisive when acting and assertive, making him a good leader. He also has a large amount of pride in himself and his daughter, believing them capable of turning the battle in the
Allied Shinobi Forces
's favour.
 Though, like his daughter and
Ōnoki
, he does seem to have a rash side, witnessed when he snapped at Kurotsuchi to be quiet.

Appearance






Kitsuchi's full appearance.



Kitsuchi is a very tall and brawny shinobi. He has dark eyes and short dark-grey-coloured hair as well as a beard and a bulbous nose. He wears the standard Iwagakure shinobi uniform with a left sleeve and a right lapel. He also wears the
forehead protector
 of the Alliance in a bandanna style and bandages around his right arm. When he was younger, he did not have a full beard.

Abilities

Having been appointed as the
Second Division
 Commander of the Allied Shinobi Forces, Kitsuchi is an undoubtedly, highly-skilled and competent shinobi. He is proficient enough to kill dozens of
White Zetsu Army
 clones on his own, standing atop a hill of them during the
Fourth Shinobi World War
.
 He is shown to possess considerable strength, punching
Kinkaku
 some distance away, while the latter was clad in his
six-tailed form
.
 Despite his large size, his speed appears to be on par with his might, as seen when saving
Darui
 from the
Demonic Statue of the Outer Path
's stomp.
 In the anime, he showed capable
taijutsu
 skill as well, able to slam two White Zetsu Army clones into submission.

Ninjutsu

Nature Transformation






Kitsuchi using Earth Release: Sandwich Technique.



Kitsuchi is highly proficient in the use of
Earth Release
 techniques. A prominent use of this was to manipulate the terrain at large scales, when he used the
Earth Release: Opening Earth Rising Excavation
 technique along with his daughter, exposing the entire part of the
White Zetsu Army
 that was travelling under the surface;
 later, along with an entire squadron aiding him, Kitsuchi managed to
lower or raise
 the earth's terrain at will; a skill he used to trap the
Ten-Tails
 in an enormous trench after it was revived.

For direct combat, he is able to cover his
fist
, and possibly other parts of his body, in extremely hard rock, granting him a fiercer punch.
 Kitsuchi specialises in the use of the
Earth Release: Sandwich Technique
, which allows him to create gargantuan rock formations, even larger than the colossal Demonic Statue of the Outer Path, to crush his foes — a technique which he claims to be the most powerful one in his arsenal. He is also capable of creating
shelters
 and
giant walls
 out of earth.

Part II

Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation






Kitsuchi attacks Kinkaku.



For the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, he was appointed as the commander of the
short-range battle division
 of the
Allied Shinobi Forces
. After Gaara's speech to rally the troops, Kitsuchi was seen leading his division out to battlefield alongside the other Commanders and their battalions which they eventually broke off from. Later, after the Alliance found out that the
White Zetsu Army
 was moving underground, the Tsuchikage told them to inform Kitsuchi. After receiving the intel, Kitsuchi along with
Kurotsuchi

unearths
 the advancing Zetsu army, and then orders his division to attack. During the battle, Kitsuchi receives the order that he and his Division were to mobilise and back up the
First Division
. When he arrives he saves
Darui
 by punching
Kinkaku
 away from him with his
armoured fist
.






Kitsuchi fighting the statue.



After Kinkaku's defeat, he orders a number squads to get the shinobi away from the battlefield and the rest follow him. Later with the battle seemingly almost finished, he stands on a massive pile of defeated
White Zetsu Army
 clones as he kills the last one.
Tobi
 then arrives on the battlefield and summons the
Demonic Statue of the Outer Path
. Kitsuchi attempts to smash the statue with his
strongest earth technique
, however, the statue easily withstands the technique and releases a powerful blast of chakra which devastates the battlefield. He later rescues Darui who went to protect the remaining
treasured tools
 after Tobi ordered the statue to step on both Darui and
Shikamaru
. Kitsuchi tells Darui that with nightfall, they would have to change their battle tactics as well as stay in close contact with headquarters. During the next day of battle Kitsuchi and his division were able to successfully defeat the Akatsuki forces that opposed them, and he, along with the remaining persons in his division, made their way to the battlefield where the
jinchūriki
 were.

Fourth Shinobi World War: Climax






Kitsuchi and Iwa shinobi attack the Ten-Tails.



Upon his arrival, he announced that his division had also arrived and later stood alongside the other members of the Allied Shinobi Forces as they faced their opposition. With the battle strategy launched, and the battlefield shrouded in dust and
Madara
,
Obito
, and the
Ten-Tails
' vision obscured, Kitsuchi and a group of Iwa-nin use the
Earth Release: Great Moving Earth Core
 technique to box the beast in, immobilising it. Faced with the beast again who easily escaped their first trap, Kitsuchi told
Kakashi
 that if he had time to be scared, he had time to make chakra as they needed to be prepared for anything. Later, when the beast was about to fire a Tailed Beast Ball, Kitsuchi used an Earth Release
technique
 to cause the beast to lose its balance and sent the attack off-course.

He later listened on as
Shikaku
 imparted what would be his final battle strategy. Later, with the situation getting dire on the battlefield, he is
contacted
 by
Shikamaru
, and requests that he teach the Alliance the
hand seals
 used to perform the simplest of earthen defences intending to use the quantity of the shinobi using the technique to overwhelm the
Ten-Tails
' powerful
Tailed Beast Ball
. Realising Shikamaru's strategy, Kitsuchi teaches Shikamaru the seals to the technique. Kitsuchi and the other Iwagakure Earth Release users create more powerful barriers amongst the weaker ones in an attempt to slow down the oncoming Tailed Beast Ball. Worrying that the defences weren't keeping up, Kitsuchi watched on as a transformed
Killer B
 stepped in to deflect the attack. Later watching on as Obito created a giant tree with in turn prepared to fire four
Tailed Beast Balls
, Kitsuchi looked on in horror noting that even if they were to erect earthen barriers again, they would be too late.

In Other Media

Video Games

Kitsuchi is a playable character in the following video games:

Game name
Japanese release
English release
Naruto Mobile
2016
2016
Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Online
14 April 2013
20 July 2016

In
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 3
, Kitsuchi is playable as a strolling character in Chapter 5 of the story mode. Also, Kitscuhi is an assist character to Chōji during his battle against the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path.

Trivia

"Kitsuchi" literally means "Yellow Earth".

According to the
fourth databook
, he's from the Tsuchikage's bloodline. While not stated expressly, since
Kurotsuchi
 is the
Third Tsuchikage
's granddaughter and they both have similar nose shapes, it is most likely that Kitsuchi is his son.

In his
Naruto: Shippūden
 episode
256
 début, Kitsuchi's ponytail is depicted as being part of the material from his forehead protector instead of hair. His pupils are also larger than they appear in the manga and his nose also has a more angular rather than a bulbous shape. In subsequent episodes, however, both his nose shape and eyes have been corrected.

Curiously, Kitsuchi's lapel is on his left side, while most Iwa-shinobi wear it on the right. This implies he may be left-handed.

References