The
Kokugan
 (黒眼,
literally meaning:
 Black Eye)
 is a
dōjutsu
 used by
Isshiki Ōtsutsuki
 and later
Kawaki
 through his
Kāma
. It features a black pupil which glows gold when jutsu are used, and a black wheel-like pattern with eight spokes coming out of the centre. The iris area between adjacent spokes is gold.

In the manga, after Isshiki was killed and appearing before
Code
 as a spirit, the number of spokes in his eye decreased to two.
 When Kawaki uses the Kokugan, the number of spokes in his eye changes from one when he's not using anything, and two to five when using different techniques. Three years later, Kawaki is able to use the Kokugan without his Kāma being active, and all eight spokes appear when he uses it.

Abilities





The eye's ability to view life force.



The Kokugan allows its wielder to use
Sukunahikona
, a
shinjutsu
 that instantly shrinks themself or any inanimate object or nonliving matter within their field of vision, or restore them to their original size.
 Accompanying that technique is
Daikokuten
, which enables the user to store anything they shrink with Sukunahikona in a dimension where time does not flow. The Kokugan can also summon large black cubes which can disrupt the techniques of a
sensory type
 individual,
 enable the user to estimate their lifespan (chakra in the anime
) through a flame-like shadow,
 or open a conventional
space–time portal
,
 which can also be used to access the timeless dimension without using Daikokuten.

Trivia

The Kokugan's shape resembles the
wheel of dharma
, connecting it with the recurrent Buddhism motif associated to the
Ōtsutsuki Clan
.

Through
Jigen
, Isshiki could perform Sukunahikona and Daikokuten despite his host not possessing the Kokugan, though the usage of the former technique is limited through hand signs.

Noticeably, Jigen does not manifest the Kokugan despite bearing Isshiki's Kāma; contrarily, Kawaki possesses the eye once his reimplanted Kāma activates.

Isshiki had Kokugan in his right eye, while Kawaki has it in his left eye.

Kawaki's development of additional spokes within his Kokugan is similar in fashion to the tomoe stages of the
Sharingan
.

Despite first appearing in the manga in July 2020, the dōjutsu wasn't given a proper name until it was referenced in a
Boruto
 Database entry on the official
Naruto
 website in June 2024.

References