Kokuō
 (
穆王
), more commonly known as the
Five-Tails
 (
五尾
,
Gobi
), is one of the nine
tailed beasts
. It was last sealed within
Han
 from
Iwagakure
.

Background






The young tailed beasts with Hagoromo.



Kokuō and the tailed beasts first came into being in the waning days of
Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki
, who used his
Creation of All Things Technique
 to divide the
Ten-Tails
' chakra into nine separate bodies and giving each a name. Some time after being created, the Sage explained to the young tailed beasts that a link existed between them despite their separation. He also foretold of a day when they would be brought together again - though not as they were - and that at that time someone would emerge to show them what true power is.
 In the anime, before his death, Hagoromo sent Kokuō to live in a temple built for the purpose of protecting it in a forest region.

During the
First Shinobi World War
,
Hashirama Senju
 captured eight of the tailed beasts and sold Kokuō and
Son Gokū
 to Iwagakure at the
Five Kage Summit
, as a sign of friendship and to ensure a balance of power amongst their new villages.
 The tailed beast would end up being sealed within Han, but was captured and extracted by
Akatsuki
.

Personality

Kokuō seems to be a quiet and reserved individual. Though it does not speak much, Kokuō uses the rather old-fashioned "watakushi" (
私
) when referring to itself, causing it to come across as very polite. It also has pride as a tailed beast, being dismayed at being controlled and being used as
Tobi
's puppet during the
Fourth Shinobi World War
. After the end of the war, Kokuō declared that it wants to seclude itself in the forest, which implies it is a pacifistic individual, not wanting confrontations anymore.

Appearance






A young Kokuō.



Kokuō primarily resembles a white horse, but with a dolphin's head. It has two pointed long horns and three (two in the anime) shorter horns in front.

The ends of its horns, hooves, and tails are tan, with some of the same-coloured spots before the tan areas of its horns and hooves. It also has red markings under its dark blue-green eyes. During the last remaining days of the Sage of Six Paths, Kokuō was much smaller than it is now and its horns were also shorter.

Abilities

See also:
Jinchūriki Forms






Kokuō creating a Tailed Beast Ball.



Physical and Chakra Prowess

Kokuō's willpower was incredibly strong, as it was the only tailed beast who broke free, albeit briefly, of Tobi's control and attempted to attack the masked man.
 Kokuō also possesses great physical strength and uses its horns in combat, showing enough
ramming-force
 to injure and knock
Gyūki
 a considerable distance away.

As a
tailed beast
, Kokuō possesses a massive amount of
chakra
. It also has powerful healing capacities, able to mend injuries in themselves and others in seconds.
 Likewise, Kokuō is effectively immortal, as when it dies, it will eventually revive, albeit in a younger form.

Ninjutsu

As a tailed beast, Kokuō can produce a
Tailed Beast Ball
. By combining
water
 and
fire
-natured chakra to create
Boil Release
, Kokuō is able to increase the temperature of its chakra to its boiling point.
 This ability forms the basis of what is referred to as
"steam-based ninjutsu"
, granting itself, or its jinchūriki, overwhelming physical strength. When in use, this ability causes the jinchūriki to emit copious amounts of steam from their body.

Part II

Fourth Shinobi World War: Climax

Main article:
Fourth Shinobi World War: Climax






Kokuō attacking Gyūki.



After Han's
full transformation
 into the Five-Tails, he rammed into the
Eight-Tails
 and pushed it a considerable ways back. Seemingly rushing toward the shinobi to attack them again, the Five-Tails was
restrained
 by
Tobi
. As the chain wrapped around its neck,
Naruto
 and
Killer B
 heard the Five-Tails' voice lamenting about the pain of being subdued by Tobi, revealing that for an instant it had broken free of the masked man's control and attempted to attack him. Forced back into its submissive Version 2-like state, it began to attack the shinobi as commanded. After
Son Gokū
 was resealed into the
Demonic Statue of the Outer Path
, Tobi, who was intent on going all-out from that point on, forced Han to fully transform into the Five-Tails.

The opposing tailed beasts prepared to attack the shinobi, but they were
rebuffed
 by a fully-transformed Naruto. Wasting no time in their attacks, the Five-Tails attempted to attack the Eight-Tails again while it was preoccupied with the
Three-Tails
, but was sent flying by the ox, who anticipated the attack. The opposing beasts regrouped and then prepared a collaborative Tailed Beast Ball, which was met by one from Naruto and
Kurama
.






Kokuō, alongside the other jinchūriki and tailed beasts, encounters Naruto.



As Naruto entered a deeper plane of the tailed beasts' consciousness, Kokuō introduced itself to the young shinobi. Later, as Kokuō was freed from the
chakra receiver
, it affirmed Kurama's belief that Naruto was the person the
Sage of the Six Paths
 had spoken about so long ago before being resealed into the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path.

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Main article:
Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki






The tailed beasts being freed from Obito.



Kokuō appeared alongside the other tailed beasts with the exception of Gyūki and
Shukaku
 when the
Ten-Tails
 looked down at Naruto. The image of the tailed beasts, along with a silhouette of the Sage of Six Paths, drove the Ten-Tails to a fit as it evolved further. Through the combined effort of the
Allied Shinobi Forces
, it was later possible to pull Kokuō out of Obito, freeing it alongside with the other tailed beasts.

When Madara ran towards the tailed beasts, both Shukaku and
Gaara
 conjured
numerous sand bullets
 and were able to restrain the Uchiha's movements. Using the opportunity to attack, the tailed beasts each took a swing at their opponent, giving sand-manipulating duo an opening to use their
Desert Layered Imperial Funeral Seal
, but Madara managed to escape the sand pyramid with his Susanoo. As Naruto in
Tailed Beast Mode
 pinned Madara down with a tail, Kokuō and the other tailed beasts joined in and did the same to increase the damage, but the Uchiha survived their attacks and retreated to a safe distance. After he received his own right Rinnegan eye from a White Zetsu clone, Madara quickly summoned the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path from Obito's body, and used the Rinnegan to
repel
 the tailed beasts. With the tailed beasts stunned, Madara then
chained
 them up and sealed them back into the Demonic Statue.






The tailed beasts reunite with Hagoromo and Naruto.



Later, the chakra Kokuō transferred to Naruto earlier, manifested within Naruto's subconscious along with the other tailed beasts to speak with the young jinchūriki and the spirit of
Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki
. There, they all voiced their shared belief to the Sage that Naruto was the child of prophecy.

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Main article:
Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes






The tailed beasts being freed from the Ten-Tails.



After Madara's ambitions were cut short by
Black Zetsu
, who revealed to be the silent manipulator of shinobi history since it was first created by
Kaguya Ōtsutsuki
, the black entity used Madara's body as a medium to resurrect its creator. During the battle against the tyrannical princess, Kokuō and the other tailed beasts continued to support Naruto by giving him
their combined power
 to overwhelm her. Ultimately, Kaguya was defeated by Naruto and
Sasuke
, who used the
Six Paths — Chibaku Tensei
 to eject all the tailed beasts from her and seal her away inside a newly-created
moon
 within her own
dimension
.

After the spirits of Hagoromo and the past Kage summoned both the tailed beasts and
Team 7
 back to the real world, the tailed beasts began to discuss their plans for the future since they were finally free, with Kokuō expressing its desire to seclude itself within the forests. Sasuke, however, made his own intentions known: removing as many people as possible who could get in the way of his plans of leading the world through a revolution to do away with current shinobi systems, including killing all the current Kage and tailed beasts. Just as Sasuke swiftly
subdued
 the tailed beasts with his Rinnegan and sealed them within his
Chibaku Tensei
, Naruto reassured the tailed beasts that he would save them once again. After Naruto was able to defeat and reform Sasuke, the two dispelled the Infinite Tsukuyomi and Sasuke released Kokuō, along with the other tailed beasts, from their prisons.

New Era

One-Tail Escort Arc

Main article:
One-Tail Escort Arc

When
Urashiki Ōtsutsuki
 began targeting
Shukaku
 for its chakra, it was deduced he was interested in all the tailed beasts' chakra. Naruto organised a telepathic meeting with the other tailed beasts. However, Kokuō,
Matatabi
, and
Chōmei
 each refused to accept aid from humans in fear of being captured and used again by them, despite their trust in Naruto, and thus decided to skip the meeting.

Kawaki Arc

Main article:
Kawaki Arc

In the anime, Kokuō was gathered with the other tailed beasts as they sensed Kurama's chakra vanishing after it
sacrificed
 its life in the battle against
Isshiki Ōtsutsuki
.

In Other Media

Video Games

Kokuō is playable as Han's awakening in
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 3
,
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm Revolution
, and
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 4
.

Trivia

"Kokuō" (
穆王
) literally means "respectful king". This name probably comes from the name of the tenth-century-ʙᴄ Chinese
King Mu of Zhou
 (
周穆王
,
Zhōu Mù Wáng
). He's famous for the
legend
 surrounding his visit to the sacred
Kunlun Mountains
 (
崑崙, 昆仑山
,
Kūnlún Shān
), where he visits the goddess
Xi Wangmu
 (
西王母
,
Xī Wángmŭ
,
literally meaning:
 Queen Mother of the West) so he can eat from her peaches of immortality. There is also an account of the King being shown a human-shaped automaton — a completely artificial, fully functional robot with internal organs and all. This might tie into Han's appearance and abilities. In Japanese, the name '穆王' is pronounced as 'bokuō', so the unusual 'kokuō' pronunciation used for the beast's name was probably meant to bring the word 国王 (
king
) to mind.

The kanji '穆' in Kokuō's name comes from the archaic adjective 'bokuboku' (
穆穆
), which means 'peaceful and lovely' or 'humble and dignified' and are also traits often associated with horses and dolphins.

According to Kishimoto in the second
Naruto
 artbook, he tried to do a mix of a dolphin and a horse when he created Kokuō.

Kokuō's name may be a reference to
Kokuoh
 the giant dark horse in the
Hokuto no Ken
 franchise.

References