Konoha
's
Barrier Team
 (
結界班
,
Kekkai-Han
) are in charge of maintaining the detection barrier surrounding Konoha, detecting intruders, and intercepting them. The team is led by members of the
Yamanaka Clan
.

Location

The Barrier Team resides in a large chamber with two levels. Streams run from the upper level into a large basin on the lower level. Above the basin is a large sphere representing the
Sensing Barrier
. In front of the sphere are four conical pillars in a square formation. Behind these is a stairway to the upper level, shielded by a large screen with the Barrier Team symbol on it. On the upper level is a small lounge area.

Divisions

The team consists of two divisions:






The Detection Division.



The
Detection Division
 has three members, all dressed in clothes similar to those of a
Shinto
 priest. Their hats have the Barrier Team symbol above the Konoha
forehead protector
. They reside on the lower level of the barrier chamber, one sitting in the middle of the four pillars in front of the sphere, with the other two standing on either side. When someone enters through the barrier, the person in the middle detects them and their point of entry. They do this, apparently, without having to look at the sphere representing the barrier.






The Interception Division.



The
Interception Division
 has five members. When at rest, they reside in the lounge area on the upper level of the barrier chamber, drinking tea and playing card games. They wear the standard Konoha uniform, but with the Barrier Team symbol on the upper arm, instead of the standard spiral of
Uzushiogakure
. When the barrier division detects an intrusion, the interception division rush to the site to apprehend the intruder. At least one member of the team is from the
Hyūga clan
.

Barrier






The barrier surrounding the village.



The barrier this team is in charge of is the spherical one surrounding the entirety of Konohagakure, even including the sky and undergrounds. It is invisible to most people, but
Pain
 could see it with his
Rinnegan
. It has a pattern on it similar to the symbol of the Barrier Team. In the circles are giant 界 (
kai
,
literally meaning:
 boundary), the second kanji of 結界 (
kekkai
,
barrier
). The barrier seems to be connected to the sphere in the Barrier chamber; when someone enters through the barrier, the sphere ripples at the point of entry. In the anime, the
Third Hokage
 promised not to change the barrier's formula so
Itachi Uchiha
 may sneak back in to see his
brother
.

Years after the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, with the help of the of the
Scientific Ninja Weapons Team
 and
Ino Yamanaka
's lead, the barrier was restructured to a completely automated sensing system able to register all native chakra signatures in the village; the team now also use
Chakra Transmission Communication Device
 for instant
telepathy
.
Koji Kashin
 was able to enter the barrier with no detection, due to being a clone of the deceased
Jiraiya
, thus possessing the same chakra. In the anime, during the new barrier system's testing,
Hyōi Yorishiro

impersonated
 a
village carpenter
 and
copied his chakra
, which had made him a near undetectable copy. However,
Inojin Yamanaka
 was able to sense the unusual disturbances from his chakra signature and exposed his disguise, which helped make further adjustments to the barrier.

See Also

Kumo Barrier Team

Suna Exploration Group