"
Konohamaru Becomes the Hokage?!
" (
火影になった木ノ葉丸!?
,
Hokage ni Natta Konohamaru!?
) is episode 257 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Konohamaru
 arrives at the
Hokage
's office to deliver a
mission
 report, and finds
Naruto
 pondering whether to take up an invitation to guest star in a Kagemasa movie. However,
Himawari
 won a hot springs trip in a lottery, so Naruto decided to take time off so they could go as a family.
Shikamaru
 reminds him it has to be him, as the movie's climax will feature a
Rasengan
. Naruto dreads telling Himawari he'll miss the trip, fearing she'll block his
tenketsu
 again. Konohamaru offers to go in Naruto's place, as he also knows the Rasengan, and tells Naruto to enjoy his trip. Konohamaru arrives at the studio, and introduces himself to the crew. He also meets Kagemasa's actor,
Gongorō Kamakura
, who has hurt his back and is done filming for the day. Gongorō says he'll forego a prep meeting the next day. The crew hands Konohamaru a script, and immediately ask to start shooting a scene. Despite being able to transform into Naruto, the make-up artists merely draw his whiskers on. Konohamaru shoots a scene in a green screen, he thinks he fumbled his line, but the crew members are unconcerned. Konohamaru is also appalled by how the actor portraying Shikamaru is so unlike him.
 Konohamaru watches a fixed version of the scene they shot, with effects added in, and feels like he's filmed in an assembly line. The assistant director agrees, and comments on how the director used to film, which is what inspired him to join the business. However, since the current producer joined in, things have shifted more towards CG instead of practical effects and filming on location instead of relying on the skill of cast and crew. Konohamaru expresses his wish to convey how cool Naruto is in the fight scene the next day. The assistant director hides the key to the studio, forcing them to shoot on location, which Konohamaru helps by getting a number of stores to close. This also forces everyone to try harder. The producer is furious the shooting was done without his permission, and ends up firing everyone other than the main actors. Konohamaru and the crew go drinking, and the director asks Konohamaru to bear with it and go back shooting for Gongorō's sake. The next day, Konohamaru sees the assistant director in a hostage situation by a bank, and assists with the situation, but ends up making the situation worse by bringing up the hostage holder's family, who are the other criminals he just attacked. The director watches it, wishing he could film it. The rest of the crew arrives, having seen the assistant director on tv, and they agree they should film it. They ask for the camera of the news crew broadcasting the situation. Gongorō arrives at the studio, and sees the director trying to get the camera. The hostage holder threatens to blow up the area with an
explosive tag
. Gongorō shows up as Kagemasa, which distracts the criminal enough for Konohamaru to deal with the explosive tag. However, his kunai is chipped and doesn't cut through the tag. Gongorō manages to punch him out, his back giving out, but not before the criminal activates the tag. Konohamaru wonders how to escape while carrying Gongorō and the assistant director, both injured, but Gongorō reminds him he's acting as the Hokage. Konohamaru contains the explosion with a Rasengan. The director mentions how they used to make the Kagemasa movies in the beginning, when they had no budget or equipment, and that Konohamaru reminded them of that. The producer is impressed with the footage, and hires everyone back, the sponsors having been moved by the footage. The director also has the producer prepare the CG for an extra flash finale, and praises the assistant director's eye. At home, Konohamaru sharpens his kunai while listening to positive news about the movie.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Konohamaru Sarutobi
Hidenori Takahashi
高橋 英則
Takahashi Hidenori
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Shikamaru Nara
Shotaro Morikubo
森久保 祥太郎
Morikubo Shōtarō
Gongorō Kamakura
Kazutaka Ishii
石井 一貴
Ishii Kazutaka
Producer
Atsushi Abe
阿部 敦
Abe Atsushi
Director
Shinya Takahashi
高橋 伸也
Takahashi Shin'ya
Assistant director
Katsunori Okai
岡井 カツノリ
Okai Katsunori
Cameraman
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Make-up artist
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Movie staff
Chihiro Ikki
Shinya Hamazoe
一木 千洋
浜添 伸也
Ikki Chihiro
Hamazoe Shin'ya
Announcer
Aoi Inase
いなせ あおい
Inase Aoi
Thief group
Kensho Ono
Kazuya Saji
Ryoko Shiraishi
小野 賢章
佐治 和也
白石 涼子
Ono Kenshō
Saji Kazuya
Shiraishi Ryōko
Police officers
Kosuke Katayama
Ryo Nishitani
片山 公輔
西谷 亮
Katayama Kōsuke
Nishitani Ryō