Konohagakure
 (
木ノ葉隠れの里
,
Konohagakure no Sato
,
English TV:
 "Village Hidden in the Leaves" or "Hidden Leaf Village",
literally meaning:
 Village Hidden by Tree Leaves) is the
hidden village
 of the
Land of Fire
. As the village of one of the
Five Great Shinobi Countries
, Konohagakure has a
Kage
 as its leader known as the
Hokage
, of which there have been seven in its history. Konoha resides deep within a forest at the base of a mountain known as the
Hokage Rock
, which has the faces of all those who have taken the office of Hokage engraved on it.
 The largest of all villages in the shinobi world,
 it is surrounded on all sides by enormous walls.
 While generally seen as the most powerful of the ninja villages,
 Konoha has enjoyed many years of relative peace and stability.

The standard attire for Konoha shinobi consists of blue or black shirts which may or may not have swirl patterns on the shoulders, along with matching coloured pants under a green
flak jacket
 which also has a red swirl on the back, and pockets on the chest area. They also tend to wrap bandages around their legs. Many Konohagakure ninja use
Fire Release
 techniques.

History

Founding





The Uchiha and Senju establish Konohagakure.



During the
Warring States Period
, ninja were organised into small mercenary clans that knew nothing but battle. The two strongest of these clans were the
Senju
 and the
Uchiha
, who had warred against each other for their entire histories. Eventually, intending to end the constant bloodshed,
Hashirama Senju
 used his position as leader of his clan to broker a truce with the Uchiha clan through their leader, his childhood friend
Madara Uchiha
. Thus the Senju, the Uchiha, and their respective affiliated clans formed the first shinobi village: Konohagakure — a name invented by Madara himself.
 Other villages would soon start forming, following Konoha's example and essentially ending the Warring States Period.






Konoha as it appeared shortly after its founding.



Hashirama used his
Wood Release
 abilities to produce much of the village's infrastructure.
 This ability and his ideals were two of the reasons he was chosen to become the village's leader: the Hokage. Madara, however, feared that the Senju would oppress his clan and attempted to gather support to overthrow Hashirama. No Uchiha would help, forcing him to take on Hashirama by himself. Madara was ultimately defeated at what would be called the
Valley of the End
 and he was believed to have died. As a result of the battle, Konoha came into possession of the
Nine-Tails
. To contain its enormous power, the village began its trend of sealing the beast within the
Uzumaki
, a clan that the Senju and thus the rest of Konoha had close ties with.

The First Three World Wars

At some point, Hashirama came to bind most of the
tailed beasts
 and sold them to other villages during the
First Shinobi World War
, to promote peace and tranquility.
 However, this peace was short-lived. Hashirama died during the war, shortly after the village began to flourish, and the mantle of Hokage was passed onto his brother,
Tobirama Senju
, who became the Second Hokage. Tobirama would later be killed by
Kinkaku
 during the same war,  but appointed
Hiruzen Sarutobi
 as Third Hokage shortly before his death. Years later, during the
Second Shinobi World War
, Hiruzen led Konoha's forces against
Iwa
 and
Suna
, using
Amegakure
 as their battleground. Ame's leader,
Hanzō
, also fought Konoha a number of times, and during one of these battles gave Hiruzen's students -
Jiraiya
,
Tsunade
, and
Orochimaru
 - the title of
Sannin
. During the
Third Shinobi World War
, Konoha fought the ninja of
Iwagakure
 across
Kusagakure
. Konoha was almost defeated, but
Minato Namikaze
 and
his team
 helped turn the war back in their
favour
.

Nine-Tailed Demon Fox's Attack

Main article:
Nine-Tailed Demon Fox's Attack






The Nine-Tails attacking Konoha.



After the end of the Third Shinobi World War, Hiruzen chose Minato to replace him as Fourth Hokage. Soon after Minato took office, however, a
masked man
 kidnapped Minato's wife, the current Nine-Tails
jinchūriki

Kushina Uzumaki
, after she had given birth to their son
Naruto Uzumaki
 and removed it from her body, which he then used to attack Konoha. Minato was able to defeat the man, but the Nine-Tails proved more difficult. Left with few options, Minato and Kushina gave their lives to seal the Nine-Tails into the body of their newborn son. Many ninja died defending the village, and most survivors blamed Naruto for the Nine-Tails' actions. Hiruzen, Hokage again, outlawed all mention of the Nine-Tails so that future generations would not hate Naruto as their parents did.

Hyūga Affair

Main article:
Hyūga Affair

The
Hyūga Affair
 (
日向の件
,
Hyūga no Ken
) — as the incident is known nowadays in Kumogakure — happened nine years prior to the start of the series, while
Kumogakure
 and
Konohagakure
 were at war. In an attempt to put an end to the fighting, they agreed to a peace treaty to be signed on the date which coincided with
Hinata Hyūga
's third birthday. The treaty was soon revealed to might be nothing more than a cover when the person who was the
Head Ninja of Kumogakure
 at the time — who was in Konoha to sign the treaty — attempted to kidnap Hinata in order to obtain the
Byakugan
 and its secrets. The shinobi was killed in his attempt by Hinata's father,
Hiashi Hyūga
.

Uchiha Clan Downfall

Main article:
Uchiha Clan Downfall






Uchiha Clan Downfall.



Konoha's leadership believed an Uchiha was responsible for the Nine-Tailed Demon Fox's attack, and as such cut off the Uchiha from much of the village's affairs. Angered by this mistreatment, many of the Uchiha began plotting a coup d'état that would wrest control of Konoha. However, some Uchiha saw the dangers from such a venture. One such figure was
Itachi Uchiha
, who became a spy for Konoha's leadership. After peace talks failed,
Danzō Shimura
 ordered Itachi to wipe out his clan in exchange for being allowed to spare his younger brother,
Sasuke
. Itachi, with assistance from
Tobi
, did as instructed, but staged events to seem as though he acted alone and for selfish purposes so that Sasuke would someday take vengeance against him for what he did to their family.

Konoha Crush

Main article:
Konoha Crush






The Konoha Crush.



During Part I, Konoha is the site of the
Chūnin Exams
. During the exams' final stage the village is invaded by
Otogakure
 and
Sunagakure
 ninja, an attempt to end the peace and prosperity that Konoha alone has enjoyed since the Third Shinobi World War. The invaders are repelled, but Konoha suffers heavy casualties, including Hiruzen. Although
Tsunade
 quickly replaces him as Fifth Hokage, recovery for the rest of Konoha's military forces is slow. The village is understaffed until Part II, leaving it unable to properly respond to events occurring in the interim such as Sasuke Uchiha's defection.

Pain's Assault

Main article:
Pain's Assault






Konoha destroyed by Pain.



More than three years after the failed Konoha Crush, the
Six Paths of Pain
 of
Akatsuki
 attack Konoha in an effort to capture Naruto. Konoha's forces have some success while fighting the Pains individually, but can do nothing to stop the village's destruction by Pain's
Shinra Tensei
. Naruto returns to Konoha shortly afterwards and defeats Pain before confronting
Nagato
, the man behind Pain. After Naruto convinces him that his actions were wrong, Nagato gives his life to revive everyone that died during the invasion. Tsunade is left in a coma from exhausting herself in protecting Konoha from Pain, causing
Danzō Shimura
 to temporarily take office as her replacement. Danzō oversees the start of the village's lengthy rebuilding process and deals with the immediate aftermath of Pain's attack. The villagers decided to rebuilt their village in the same place instead of a new area as they felt Konoha is where the Hokage Rock is.

Fourth Shinobi World War

Main article:
Fourth Shinobi World War






Konoha entrapped in the God: Nativity of a World of Trees.



Because of Akatsuki's growing aggression, the ninja villages decide to form an
Allied Shinobi Forces
 to oppose Akatsuki in the
Fourth Shinobi World War
. Danzō is killed shortly after the Alliance is agreed upon, but Tsunade wakes from her coma in time to start overseeing the war efforts. Despite still being under construction, Konoha is used as a haven for refugees fleeing countries where much of the fighting is expected to take place.
 By the time the war is won, most of the village has been restored.
 As a result of the war, Konoha's population suffered greatly, but it gradually recovered.

Post-War






Konoha fifteen years after the Fourth Shinobi World War.



During the
Sixth
 and
Seventh Hokage
's era, the hidden village that was Konoha had stopped being hidden and instead become the first metropolitan area in the Land of Fire. Stores which had been in business since the village's founding grew into 24 hour businesses, and due to condos housing hundreds of people, it brought in more immigrants. Konoha's population eventually turned prominently non-shinobi, due to the Academy introducing a general studies department, with its ninjutsu department falling below quota in the peaceful era.
 Military budget was considered to be lowered in order to focus on other projects, leading to decreased funding for organisations such as the
Anbu
.
 The village expanded to the land behind the Hokage Rock and installed the
Thunder Rail
 throughout the village, leading to Konoha being regarded as a city rather than a village.






Konoha destroyed again.



Fifteen years after the Fourth Shinobi World War, Konoha held the first
Five Great Shinobi Countries
 co-sponsor Chūnin Exams, during which the final exam venue was attacked and destroyed by
Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki
, resulting in the Seventh Hokage briefly being abducted. Sixteen years after the war,

Isshiki Ōtsutsuki
 infiltrated the village, which resulted in a small amount of casualties. Three years after Isshiki's assault, much of the village including the
Hokage Rock
 and the city behind it has been destroyed.

Locations

Academy

Academy Instructor Final Exam Building
(
anime only
)

Akagahara

(
anime only
)

Amaguriama

Ankorodō

Dango Shop

Film Theatre
(
anime only
)

Fire Park

Forty-Fourth Training Ground

Hokage Rock

Hokage Residence

Information & Receiving Centre

Jōnin Standby Station

Kaminarimon Camping Grounds

Kaminarimon Company Headquarters

Kikyō Castle

Konoha Archive Library

Konoha Aviary

Konoha Bank

Konoha Cemetery

Konohagakure Central Post Office

Konoha Film Studio (
木ノ葉撮影所
,
Konoha Satsueijo
)

Konoha Hospital

Konoha Hot Springs

Konohagakure Intelligence Division

Konoha Library

Konoha Military Police Force

Konoha Mountain Villa

Konoha Ninja Tool Research Facility: Detached Office

(
anime only
)

Konoha Orphanage

Konoha Purification Plant (
木ノ葉浄水場
,
Konoha Jōsuijō
)

Konoha Shinshigai Station

Konoha Strict Correctional Facility

(
anime only
)

Konoha Veterinary Hospital
(
anime only
)

Lightning Burger

Main Street Station

Memorial Stone

Mission Assignment Desk

Mohawk Fish Market

(
anime only
)

Mori-No-Yu Hot Spring

(
anime only
)

Naka River

Naka Shrine

Nakayoshi Factory

Nara Research Lab
(
anime only
)

Ninja Tools Roll Roll Roll

Ninjutsu Research Centre

Old City Station

Ramen Ichiraku

Senju Park

Shushu-ya

Tatsumi Gate

Third Training Ground

Training Hall

Uchiha District

Uchiha Senbei

Yakiniku Q

Yamanaka Flowers

Zeroth Training Ground

(
anime only
)

Clans






Konohagakure's clan leaders around the time of the Nine-Tailed Demon Fox's attack.



Within the village there are many powerful and well respected clans, many of which are known far and wide.
 The Uchiha clan was regarded as the most powerful clan in the village.
 All known clans in the village are:

Aburame Clan
Akimichi Clan
Fūma Clan
Hatake Clan
Hōki Family
Hyūga Clan
Inuzuka Clan
Izuno Clan
Kohaku Clan
Kurama Clan
Lee Clan
Nara Clan
Onikuma Clan
Sarutobi Clan
Senju Clan
Shimura Clan
Uchiha Clan
Uzumaki Clan
Yamanaka Clan

Tenma Izumo
's clan

Namida Suzumeno
's clan

Emergency Protocols

Konoha has a protocol in case the village is ever under attack.

Eliminate the enemy units.

If phase 1 is not viable, evacuate every civilian to the nearest shelter hidden throughout the village.

Use all of the forces in the village to eliminate the enemy with full force using home field advantage.

Trivia

The hiragana あん (an) is painted on the four entrance gates of the village (one hiragana on each door).
 This means "hermitage" or "retreat". In kanji, the character is "庵". There are also
torii
 built all around the perimeter wall of the village.

Masashi Kishimoto
 stated that Konohagakure was modelled after his own hometown.

In the
first Naruto volume
, there's a sketch of downtown Konoha. In a close-up is a billboard with a cartoon version of Masashi Kishimoto holding a paintbrush.

According to
Kai no Sho
, Konoha has the highest population out of all the five main hidden villages.

After Konoha's destruction, there were very few glimpses of the village during its reconstruction in the manga until
chapter 616
, showing the village looking as it did before the invasion. In the anime (as well as
Ultimate Ninja Storm 3
), most of the village was built within the crater caused by Pain.

Smoking isn't allowed in the village's public places.

Foreign shinobi must have a permit to carry weapons within the village.

Konoha is located at the central part of the Land of Fire.

See Also

List of Konohagakure characters

References