This article is about the chapter. For the character, see
Konohamaru
.

"
Konohamaru-chan
" (
木ノ葉丸ちゃん
) is chapter 19 of the
Boruto: Two Blue Vortex
 manga.

Summary

In a flashback,
Shinki
 applies his chakra on
Araya
's sword to enable him to manipulate his
iron sand
. Shinki says it is all for the purpose for protecting his
father
. Araya responds  saying he should be focusing on
Yodo
 instead.

Back in the present, Araya frees
Mitsuki
 from
Ryū
's
control
. The four shinobi rally to fight against Ryū, as Araya tells
Sarada
 and Mitsuki to launch a direct attack while leaving the Iron Sand to him. Ryū is frustrated that they are underestimating him, but it is inspiring him to fight harder, launching a huge wave of Iron Sand. As Araya dispels it with his sword, Yodo uses her hearing to warn the others of a sneak attack from their flank. When Araya dispels it, Ryū proclaims that they're not all talk. Sarada rushes forward, using
Fire Release: Great Fireball Technique
, but Ryū blocks it with a wall of Iron Sand. Behind him, Mitsuki, having entered
Sage Mode
, ensnares Ryū with several large snakes. When Mitsuki launches more snakes to attack Ryū, he dodges the attack by
turning his own body into Iron Sand
. As more Iron Sand surrounds the group, Yodo uses her hearing to detect Ryū manifesting himself, prompting Araya to use his blade to gather the Iron Sand in the area, leaving Ryū exposed. Mitsuki uses the opening to attack with more large snakes, and Sarada strikes him with
Chidori
. The duo deal considerable damage to Ryū, but the attacks were too shallow, and Ryū once again turns into Iron Sand.

Meanwhile, Matsuri's collar surrounds Konohamaru as she angrily yells at him about not wanting to be called "Konohamaru-chan". Konohamaru attempts to validate his feelings, calling Matsuri selfish, prompting Matsuri to begin ensnaring him with her
Wood Release
.
Ada
, watching the current events unfold with her
Senrigan
, updates
Koji Kashin
 on the situation: Konohamaru angered Matsuri and is about to be devoured, and the group of shinobi are holding their own against Ryū, but they are struggling and are in no position to help Konohamaru. Koji notices Boruto's restlessness, advising him that he has to stay.

At the
Human God Trees
' base,
Jura
 explains the newly-learned concept of love to
Hidari
 and
Mamushi
, noting that this emotion has the potential to cause even them serious problems. Matsuri begins to angrily question her emotions by looking at Konohamaru, expressing her intense desire to devour him so she can no longer have this feeling again. Jura remembers the
Ino–Shika–Chō
 team prioritizing
Himawari Uzumaki
's safety over their own, and they were aware of how foolish this is. These actions as well as
Inojin Yamanaka
 losing his composure upon seeing Himawari hurt were caused by love derailing their thinking, confirming that the concept of love appears in many tomes and it seems impossible to fully understand, but it is a feeling they must overcome.

Yodo detects Ryū in the air above them, and once again Araya uses his blade to force him to manifest. However, a cluster of
Claw Grime
 suddenly emerge from the
Claw Marks
 on Ryū's cloak. Mitsuki tries to fend off the horde with his snakes and Sarada with her
Fire Release: Phoenix Sage Fire Technique
, but they are overwhelmed by the number. A group of Claw Grime surround Yodo, who desperately tries to fend them off, but she is bitten by one of them. Araya quickly strikes with his blade, but it becomes stuck in the Claw Grime's body and Araya cannot pull it out. Suddenly, Ryū forces this Claw Grime to enter the Claw Marks on another Claw Grime, taking Araya's blade with it.

Now with no way to defend themselves against the Iron Sand, the shinobi are cornered. Matsuri also declares she will devour Konohamaru as he becomes further ensnared in Matsuri's transformed collar.