The
Konoha Military Police Force
 is — as the name suggests — the judicial organisation of
Konohagakure
. Initially believed to have been founded by the
Uchiha
,
 in actuality, it was founded by the
Second Hokage
, and was given to the Uchiha as a sign of trust and good faith between the
Senju
 and themselves.

Tobi
 believed, however, that this was just a method of ostracising them from the village: having built the police station next to a prison, as well as distancing the Uchiha from taking part in the actual governing of Konoha.

A few members, such as
Setsuna
, also came to believe that this was the true motive behind the organisation, and tried to rebel as a result.
 Tobirama, however, dismissed this notion and stated he did this in order to keep the Uchiha's
emotions
 in check and have the village benefit from their dedication at the same time.






The symbol of the organisation.



The force naturally consisted of mostly Uchiha clan members before their
downfall
 because — as
Itachi Uchiha
 put it — only strong shinobi were capable of bringing other shinobi to justice.
 The last known leader of this era of the organisation was
Fugaku Uchiha
. Before their eradication, every leader of the the force was an Uchiha.

Following the massacre, authority over the organisation was given to the
Fūma Clan
, which is distantly related to the Uchiha.
 In the anime, it was noted by the village's leaders that in future, members should be chosen via open selection instead of sticking to a single clan.






Members of the Police Force.



The Konoha Military Police's purpose was to maintain the law in the village, regarded as "
elite shinobi who monitor fellow shinobi
". They did not have the authority of arresting
Anbu
 members without a warrant, as Anbu directly report to the
Hokage
.
 This disparity in authority results in a certain degree of tension between the two groups.
 The symbol of the organisation was a four-point star with the crest of the Uchiha clan embedded into the centre and the attire of the police force consisted of the standard Konoha-nin attire with the symbol of the police force emblazoned on the shoulders instead of the regular
Uzushiogakure
 symbol. At some point after the downfall of the Uchiha, the emblem of the Police Force was altered to replace the Uchiha symbol with the Konoha symbol, though the original emblem remained on the station.

In the aftermath of the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, the
Fifth
 and
Sixth Hokage
 stopped the police from exposing the identities of everyone connected to
Root
, which ultimately lead to backlash ten years afterwards.
 At some point,
Kōtarō Fūma
 became the head of the force in the anime, whilst Kiba became the captain in the manga.

Trivia

In the anime, within
Tsunade
's
Infinite Tsukuyomi

dream
,
Taiko Uchiha
 was a member, and
Shisui
 as well as
Sasuke Uchiha
 were high ranking members of the force.

References