The
Kubikiribōchō
 (
首斬り包丁
,
literally meaning:
 Decapitating Carving Knife) is a mystical
sword
 renowned as the "
seversword
" (
断刀
,
dantō
). Like the other weapons belonging to the
Seven Ninja Swordsmen of the Mist
, the sword is passed down from generation to generation amongst the group's members since the
First Mizukage
's era.

History

Jūzō Biwa
 wielded the blade with great brutality during his time as one of the Seven Ninja Swordsmen of the Mist. He killed many enemies with it, dyeing battlefields red with their blood, and was infamously known for it internationally.
 In the anime, Jūzō defected from
Kirigakure
 and joined
Akatsuki
, taking the blade along with him. However, he was later killed in battle with
Yagura Karatachi
 and the blade subsequently fell back into the village's possession.





The blade wielded by Zabuza.



Although this giant blade was said to have been used by
Mangetsu Hōzuki
, who mastered all seven swords, it became the trademark weapon of
Zabuza Momochi
 during his time as one of the Seven Ninja Swordsmen. After defecting from Kirigakure, Zabuza continued to use the blade up until his death, at which point it was left beside his
grave
 until
Suigetsu Hōzuki
 took it for himself three years later.





Killer B slices into the blade.



During
Taka
's fight with
Killer B
, not only did the
jinchūriki
 wield the blade momentarily,
 he managed to slice into a portion of the blade, weakening it considerably.
 When Taka later confronted the
Fourth Raikage
, he struck the blade along the same cut that B had created, splitting it into two.
 Despite it being halved, Suigetsu continued to use the blade, which now resembled a
cleaver
, knowing of its regenerative capabilities, until it was taken from him when he was captured and imprisoned by the
Land of Iron
's
samurai
. When he later attempted to locate the blade after his escape, he was unable to find it anywhere.

During the clash between
Kabuto Yakushi
's troops and the
Third Division
 of the
Allied Shinobi Forces
, the sword was shown to have been returned to the
reincarnated
 Zabuza,
 who used it to strike down numerous enemies in order to reform the broken blade.
 Nevertheless, the sword was only fully restored when Zabuza wounded
Kakashi Hatake
, who had been immobilised by
Haku
.
 Following Zabuza's defeat, Kakashi took the blade and demonstrated skilful use of it in battle,
channelling

lightning
-natured
chakra
 through it to enhance its cutting power.
 When Kakashi later saved
Naruto Uzumaki
 from
Tobi
, the sword was no longer in his possession.

Some time after the war, Kubikiribōchō was returned to Kirigakure.
 In the anime, a rebellious group proclaiming themselves the
New Seven Ninja Swordsmen
 stole the seven blades to start a revolution against the modernisation and peaceful era of Kirigakure, determined to return to the days of the "Bloody Mist".
Hassaku Onomichi
 took up Kubikiribōchō.
 Soon after, he and his team was defeated, allowing the village to reclaim the sword.

Appearance






The holes on the blade being used.



Kubikiribōchō is a large
broadsword
, 250 centimeters (8.2 feet) in length with a weight of 30 kilograms (about 66 pounds),
 shaped like a
butcher knife
. The blade itself has two cut outs, a circle close to the top and a semi-circular one nearer to the handle, the former of which is aptly fitting the sword's purpose of decapitation.
 The latter notch allows a strap to be wrapped around the weapon, making it easier for the user to carry. Its extremely long handle is also detachable to further aid transportation and then reattached when required for combat.

Abilities






The sword regenerating.



Like the other weapons employed by the Seven Ninja Swordsmen of the Mist, the sword possesses a unique power, this being its ability to reform itself using the
iron
 harvested from the blood of its victims. This regenerative process takes place almost instantaneously and is capable of bringing the weapon back to its original condition no matter how severe the damage is, from a simple chip or nick to a complete separation of over half the blade. The sword also possesses high durability and is quite strong, able to cut through almost anything. However, due to its considerable weight, only especially strong and resilient individuals can handle wielding it for long durations; otherwise they will tire quickly.

Utilised Techniques

Flying Revolving Sword

Trivia

In the manga, Suigetsu simply retrieves the blade from Zabuza's grave. In the anime, however, sometime after Zabuza's death, the sword was stolen by
Tenzen Daikoku
: a crime boss who lost many men to the blade. It was then kept as a trophy and was used by one of his bodyguards until Suigetsu forcefully took it.

References

Kubikiribouchou, a Espada Decepadora