Kumogakure
 (
雲隠れの里
,
Kumogakure no Sato
,
English TV:
 Hidden Cloud Village,
literally meaning:
 Village Hidden by Clouds) is the
hidden village
 of the
Land of Lightning
 and was founded by the
First Raikage
. As the village of one of the
Five Great Shinobi Countries
, Kumogakure has a
Kage
 as its leader known as the
Raikage
, of which there have been five in its history. The village is located in a range of tall mountains, and is literally hidden in the clouds.
 The Raikage works in a
large blue structure
 built into the tallest mountain.

The standard attire for Kumo shinobi consists of a long, grey top which gathers just at the waist to give a sash-like appearance, with a matching coloured bottom. Over this they wear white, one-strapped flak jackets and arm as well as shin-guards. Many Kumogakure ninja use
Lightning Release
 techniques.

History

Kumogakure was founded after the
Warring States Period
 by the
First Raikage
. Shortly after the formation of their villages,
Konoha
's
First Hokage
 sold
tailed beasts
 to Kumo as a sign of friendship and to ensure a balance of power amongst their new villages. The
Second Raikage
 and
Second Hokage
 later tried to formally agree to peace between their villages, but the ceremony was interrupted by the
Gold and Silver Brothers
 and the Hokage was nearly killed. Konoha and Kumo ended up on opposing sides during the
First Shinobi World War
, with Kumo's
Kinkaku Force
 killing the Second Hokage. Decades later, during the
Third Shinobi World War
, Kumo and Konoha would fight again, often with
A
 on Kumo's side and
Minato Namikaze
 on Konoha's. Following the death of the
Third Raikage
 in a battle against 10,000 opposing shinobi, A succeeded him as the Fourth.





Kushina Uzumaki being kidnapped.



Despite becoming one of the Five Great villages Kumo has gained a rather shameless reputation, always prioritising their military might by any means. While a peace treaty was formed between all the villages to cut back on military budget and reduce the sizes of their forces during times of peace, Kumo secretly did not honour the agreement, seeing this as a chance to ensure that no other village can ever have an upper hand should hostilities later resume. Kumo's efforts to amass power would often entail stealing secrets and even kidnapping shinobi from other villages. The
Third Tsuchikage
 notes that other villages learning of this behaviour and deception only provoked the other villages to employ similar tactics in kind.
 Several years before the Third Shinobi World War, Kumo shinobi kidnapped
Kushina Uzumaki
 from Konoha in order to study her unique
chakra
, but were foiled by Minato Namikaze.
 A few years after the Third Shinobi World War, Kumo sent its
Head Ninja
 to Konoha to sign a peace treaty, a cover for an attempt to acquire the
Byakugan
 by kidnapping
Hinata Hyūga
. When the
Head Ninja
 was killed by
Hiashi Hyūga
 in the attempt, the village still tried to obtain the Byakugan by feigning knowledge of the their soldier's actions and threatening war unless Hiashi's body was turned over to make up for the Head Ninja's death. In what would be called the
Hyūga Affair
,
Hiashi's twin
 was given to Kumo instead, as his Byakugan was
sealed
 upon death and making it worthless. In the anime, Kumo made another attempt to acquire the Byakugan amidst the
Konoha Crush
, but failed yet again thanks to the efforts of Hiashi and
Neji Hyūga
.






Kumogakure ninja restraining the Eight-Tails.



One other method of securing power has been the tailed beasts. In the early days of the village, before buying tailed beasts from Konoha, Kumo sent the
Gold and Silver Brothers
 to capture the
Nine-Tails
, a task at which they ultimately failed.
 With the tailed beasts in its possession, Kumo historically struggled to harness the beasts' power in
jinchūriki
; jinchūriki could not gain control of the beasts and would eventually lose control. The
Eight-Tails
 would prove a particular headache in this regard, routinely rampaging through the village when its jinchūriki could not longer contain it. Because the Eight-Tails was too valuable to destroy, many were killed trying to
seal
 it. The Eight-Tails' most recent jinchūriki,
Killer B
, as well as the jinchūriki of the
Two-Tails
,
Yugito Nii
, have been able to successfully control their beasts, leaving both highly valued by the village. Among the villages, Kumogakure also possesses the best technology to control a tailed beast, having built a whole
temple
 for that sake. Although Kinkaku and Ginkaku had failed in their attempt at subduing the Nine-Tails, they have managed to become pseudo-Jinchūriki by eating the fox's chakra flesh for two weeks, a feat that a Kumogakure shinobi attempted to replicate with the Eight-Tails' tentacles, which led them to die instead.

When the
Land of Flowers
 was nearly conquered by the
Land of Earth
, the Land of Lightning saved them from complete annexation. Since then, Flowers and Lighting are allies, and Kumo are obligated to protect them from any invasion attempts.






The Allied Shinobi Forces headquarters in Kumogakure.



When
Akatsuki
 captures B (the Fourth Raikage's brother) mere months after the similar capture of Yugito, the Raikage is outraged by the loss of the village's jinchūriki and calls a
Kage Summit
 to find a way to deal with Akatsuki. Although suspicious of the other villages due to their histories with Akatsuki, Akatsuki's declaration of the
Fourth Shinobi World War
 (and news that B only pretended to be captured) convinces the Raikage to join the
Allied Shinobi Forces
. He is appointed its Supreme Commander and Kumo is selected for the
Allied Shinobi Forces' Headquarters
, making it a target for Akatsuki's counter-offensive.






The village entrapped in the God: Nativity of a World of Trees technique.



During the war, Kumo fell victim to the
Infinite Tsukuyomi
 and
God: Nativity of a World of Trees
, but endures the attack. With the war won, Kumo works closely together with other villages, improving relationships between each other. Two years later Kumo is still consolidating power, but it does so for mutual benefit of all the villages by taking charge of stopping the moon from crashing into Earth. By the era of the
Fifth Raikage
, all five
Kage
 are on good terms.

However, tensions did arise shortly after the attack of
Momoshiki
 and
Kinshiki Ōtsutsuki
;
Iwagakure
 was ordered by their
Daimyō
,
Danjō
, to invade and conquer the
Land of Flowers
, whom Kumogakure are obligated to protect due to their alliance.
Kirigakure
 would also side with Iwa due to their trade in vital minerals, which would lead to a potential Fifth Shinobi World War that would dissolve the
Shinobi Union
 and irretrievably destroy the peace that was so hard earned. Fortunately, due to the diplomatic assistance granted by the
Seventh Hokage
 and
Ikkyū Madoka
, they were able to convince Danjō to call off the invasion, thus averting war.

Locations

Raikage's Office

Allied Shinobi Forces' Headquarters

Clans

Yotsuki Clan

Chinoike Clan

Trivia

Several shinobi of the village have names that are based on letters of the Roman alphabet, such as "
A
", "
B
" and "
C
" for example. Also, several shinobi have names based on adjectives reflecting their personality such as
Omoi
 (thought),
Samui
 (cold), and
Darui
 (dull) for example.

Additionally, several shinobi have tattoos of kanji upon their shoulders reflecting some individual characteristic like their techniques, name or seal, including Darui,
Kinkaku
 and
B
 for example.

Several of the village's techniques have a pun of being an English name that has been given kanji that somewhat matches the Japanese pronunciation.

In real life, the Kumogakure school is a ninjutsu school dating back to the sixteenth century.

The name of the village, as well as its kanji, is the Japanese word for "disappearance".

See Also

List of Kumogakure characters

References