A
kusarigama
 is a traditional Japanese weapon consisting of a
sickle
 attached to a chain. It may be used to attack opponents, or to incapacitate them with the chain. Some skilled kusarigama users can even steal their opponents' weapons. Tenten used it as a projectile in her
Twin Rising Dragons
 technique, while Jiga magnetises it with his
Magnet Ninja Art
 to steal opponents' weapons. Hanzō is noted to be a very skilled user of the
kusarigama
, which he has drenched in
poison
 to further increase its lethality. Unusually, he tended to deliver strikes by swinging the sickle with the chain, rather than simply employing the weighted end, which is generally considered to be the most effective manner.

Types of Kusarigama

There are apparently different sizes of kusarigama, as the one employed by Hanzō appeared to be about a metre long while the one used by Tenten, as well as the one used by one of the shinobi attacking Black Zetsu during the
Fourth Shinobi World War
,
 appeared to be about one-fourth that length.

One of
Gatō
's merchant-mercenaries used a kusarigama where the sickle and weight were connected by a chain to a handle, making its construction appear similar to a
Three-section staff
.

During the
Chūnin Exams
, one of the weapons
Tenten
 used in her battle against
Temari
 resembled a standard kusarigama, but had a smaller kama serving as the fundō (weight). This may be an example of the
Okinawan version of the weapon
, which sometimes consists of two sickles joined together.

In the anime, the kusarigama used by Jiga incorporates a cable which can extend to great lengths. The counterweight consists of a spiked metal ball.

Hidan
's
Triple-Bladed Scythe
 has a long metal cable attached to it, and he uses it similarly to a kusarigama.

In the manga,
Saisu Kamano
 used an unusual one against
Pain
's
Deva Path
, as this one was fully collapsible so that it could easily be carried about his person. Both the weapon's blade and handle were collapsible, with each comprised of two or three individual sections respectively.
 However, in the anime, this weapon was instead replaced by a similarly collapsible kama.

The blade of the kusarigama wielded by
Hanzō
 was topped off by a short spike.

In the anime, one of the weapons
Iō
 had created was called a "Sickle-chain," a kusarigama which had a chain and counterweight attached directly to the tip of the blade. The shaft was connected by chain to another sickle which mirrored this impractical design.

Shin Uchiha
 has been shown using a chain attached to a
pickaxe
, using it like a normal kusarigama. He later used a large
shuriken
 with a short handle, also attached to a chain. The latter type also has a
kunai
 attached to the opposite end of the chain.

References