Kushimaru Kuriarare
 (
栗霰串丸
,
Kuriarare Kushimaru
) was a
Kirigakure

jōnin
 and a member of the
Seven Ninja Swordsmen of the Mist
.

Background






Kushimaru and his team-mates encounters the genin team.



In the anime, Kushimaru committed many acts of cruelty in his lifetime, including killing his sensei.
 At some point in time, Kushimaru encountered the young
Might Guy
,
Ebisu
 and
Genma Shiranui
 on a mission alongside the other members of the Seven Ninja Swordsmen of the Mist. The young shinobi managed to flee, however, due to the timely arrival of
Might Duy
, who
sacrificed
 himself to save the genin.
 In the anime, Kushimaru was killed by Might Duy's effort.

Personality

In the anime, Kushimaru reveled in killing, like his fellow swordsmen, taking pleasure in crucifying countless shinobi. He is also noted to have committed many cruel acts, such as killing his sensei. He also had a penchant for laughing maniacally. Kushimaru does not take kindly to anyone other than one of the Seven Ninja Swordsmen of the Mist wielding one of their swords, and resolved to reclaim the
Kubikiribōchō
 from Kakashi. He also tended to argue a lot with
Jinpachi Munashi
. The two swordsmens' collective cruelty earned them the nickname the "Heartless Pair" (
非情コンビ
,
Hijō Konbi
) from
Kakashi Hatake
.

Appearance






Kushimaru's full appearance.



Kushimaru was very thin and tall in stature, giving him a gangly appearance. He had long, shaggy, straw-blond hair and his face was concealed by a white, porcelain
Anbu
 mask, with a green-coloured triangle on its lower half, slits for eye-holes and Kirigakure's symbol etched into the top. His attire consisted of a sleeveless black shirt, matching pants, complete with a waist-guard, and Kirigakure's striped wrist and leg-guards. He also wore bandages around his neck like the other members of his generation of the Seven Swordsmen.

Abilities

As one of the Seven Ninja Swordsmen of the Mist, Kushimaru was one of the most powerful shinobi Kiri ever produced. His generation of swordsmen was even noted to be the strongest in the village's history. He was capable of using the
Silent Killing
 technique, as seen when fighting the
Third Division
 while under the cover of
mist
.

Kenjutsu






Kushimaru wielding Nuibari.



Kushimaru wielded the unique longsword
Nuibari
. With it, he was not only able to precisely pierce multiple enemies in quick succession, but also stitch them together utilising a substantial length of
wire
 attached to the blade. This aptly demonstrated his proficient dexterity while handling this particular needle-like sword, as he was able to repeatedly catch it securely just mere moments after previously forcing the blade through his adversaries.

In the anime, he was seen using
senbon
 and setting a trap for his opponents by hiding his wire strings underground to form a complex structure that
cuts off the opponent's feet
. He could also use a
technique
 that would kill the enemy slowly and painfully.

Part II

Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation

Main article:
Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation






The previous generation of swordsmen summoned.



Amidst the battle with the Third Division, the
reincarnated
 previous generation of the Seven Ninja Swordsmen of the Mist are
summoned
 by
Pakura
 and
Gari
, under
Kabuto Yakushi
's instruction, with the intention of overwhelming the opposition. Amongst their number is Kushimaru, who after being futilely bombarded by various techniques, retrieves Nuibari from within a
scroll
 in
Mangetsu Hōzuki
's possession. Entering the fray whilst concealed by a
thick mist
, Kushimaru begins a
silent massacre
, impaling a multitude of shinobi before bundling them together. With
Zabuza Momochi
's defeat, the mist clears, exposing Kushimaru to the enemy.






Kushimaru and Jinpachi fighting Kakashi and Guy.



In the anime, his sealing is expanded upon. When dawn broke on the war's second day, Kushimaru reappeared on the battlefield as he and Jinpachi went on a killing spree until Kakashi intercepts them. Upset with an outsider wielding the Kubikiribōchō, Kushimaru decides to reclaim the sword from Kakashi, resulting in a bicker with his fellow swordsmen. The swordsmen taking advantage of their immortality to overwhelm Kakashi until
Might Guy
 backs him up. The
Konohagakure
 shinobi's teamwork and his constant arguing with Jinpachi proves his downfall.

Fourth Shinobi World War: Climax

Main article:
Fourth Shinobi World War: Climax

In the manga, it was only noted that Kushimaru and the other reincarnated shinobi being dealt with by the Third Division were sealed away before Kakashi and Might Guy departed for
Naruto Uzumaki
's location.
 Later, with the release of the Impure World Reincarnation technique, a light of sorts encased Kushimaru's sealed body as the technique was dispelled and his soul was returned to the
afterlife
.

In Other Media

Video Games

Kushimaru Kuriarare is a playable character in the following video games:

Game name
Japanese release
English release
Naruto Mobile
2016
2016
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Blazing
14 July 2016
24 August 2016
Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Online
14 April 2013
20 July 2016

Trivia

Kushimaru (
串丸
) roughly means "skewer", and Kuriarare (
栗霰
) means "chestnut hail"; like all members of the Seven Ninja Swordsmen, his surname is derived from a type of
produce
.

In "
Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Online
", his main nature is
Wind Release
.

References