The Land of Waves.



The
Land of Waves
 (
波の国
,
Nami no Kuni
) is a nation located on an island near the
Land of Fire
. It does not have a hidden village, thus relying on  assistance from other hidden villages like
Konohagakure
.

Located south of Konoha, the Land of Waves has many rivers running through it and is famous for its mangroves, which are filled with all kinds of lifeforms.
 Though an isolated island, relying on shipping for commerce and trade, it was prosperous. This changed when
Gatō
 set his sights on it (due to its inability to defend itself),
 breaking the people's will and monopolising the shipping industry. In order to break this monopoly,
Tazuna
, a citizen of the Land of Waves, pursued the construction of a bridge connecting the island to the mainland.





A map depicting the country's location.



Team 7
's first real mission was to this country and was meant to be a simple bodyguard mission to protect Tazuna but ended up completing a far more difficult mission fighting off
Zabuza Momochi
 and
Haku
, and later with the help of Zabuza and the townspeople, ending Gatō's reign of terror. With Gatō gone, the
bridge
 was completed, connecting the Land of Waves to the Land of Fire, increasing commerce and trade and bringing more revenue to the Land. It is now a prosperous area.

There was an area in the Land of Waves called
Sector D
. When there was a huge flood in Sector D, it was stopped by
Kaiza
.

Tazuna and some of the carpenters of the Land of Waves assisted Konoha in rebuilding the village after
Pain's Assault
. In
Kakashi Hiden
, the carpenters also rebuilt the
Blood Prison
 and collaborate in the construction of the
Tobishachimaru
.

Fifteen years after the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, the state of affairs posed a security threat to the middle seas, which became known as
The Middle Sea Security Issue
, leading to the
Fire Daimyō
 making a statement on Konoha TV.
 The Land of Waves' continued expansion has made the Land of Water uneasy in signing a treaty that would further the Land of Waves' stability.

See Also

List of Land of Waves citizens

References