The
Land of Stairs
, located next to the
Land of Fire
, is a small country that are on good terms with
Konohagakure
. It has a small, gentle hill from which streams of fire continuously burst out. According to records, this hill has continued to burn for over 4,000 years, even on rainy days. This undying flame, considered a blessing of the gods or the curse of a demon, has been an object of worship and reverence for people since time immemorial.

Shortly after the end of the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, the
Five Great Shinobi Countries
 entered into an agreement that restored peace. When the newly elected
Hokage
,
Kakashi Hatake
, heard rumours about a small country that owned an undying flame, he decided to send a reconnaissance team to investigate the phenomenon. After investigation through science and
ninjutsu
, they found that a large amount of natural gas was kept dormant under the hill. This gas erupted from the earth and burned continuously thanks to geothermal energy. The natural gas produced here fueled large machinery and was exported in great quantities to the Five Great Shinobi Countries. Thanks to this, the Land of Stairs developed rapidly. Its income had increased 17 times, and the average life expectancy by 20 years compared to the same indicators 10 years prior. As a result, a process of increasing the well-being of society developed.

The people of the Land of Stairs admired the leaders of the traditional shinobi villages. Especially the Hokage, the leader of the Konohagakure, in whom they had special trust. Because more than 10 years ago, when the main industry of the Land of Stairs was still blacksmithing, the Sixth Hokage and
Ikkyū Madoka
 provided funds for the development of the Land of Stairs. Despite the fact that the income of the Land of Stairs, which processes natural gas, has already exceeded the income of the Land of Fire three times, people still remember the difficult times when the Land of Fire lent them a helping hand.

Some time later, when
Naruto Uzumaki
 became Hokage, the first country he visited was the Land of Stairs, where he discussed with the daimyō the issue of using gas.