The
Legendary Stupid Brothers
 (
伝説のバカ兄弟
,
Densetsu no Bakakyōdai
,
English TV:
 Famous Idiot Brothers) are a pair of criminal ninja who originate from an unknown village.

Overview

The two are quite large and almost equally unintelligent (hence their name). The older brother,
Fūjin
, seems to be more of the leader, as the younger
Raijin
 would follow his orders and ask foolish questions regarding obvious matters, which were responded with equally foolish answers. Their thoughts revolve entirely around food, and the pursuit of it is all that motivates them. They also have a certain degree of
god complex
, as when they demand for food from others, they refer to it as "offering".

While their intelligence is sub-par, they possess strength so immense that it has been compared to the raw might of
Tsunade
, who, nevertheless, managed to overpower them with ease. They were able to overwhelm even an experienced
jōnin
 such as
Shizune
 and her entire team.

The brothers came to respect
Mizuki
 when he went out of the way to break out of his cell to acquire food for them, and promised them an even better feast if they went with him to
Orochimaru
, and refer him to "Aniki" (
兄貴
,
Aniki
,
literally meaning:
 elder brother), a term usually used by gangsters for their superiors. They are also very faithful to each other, as when
Ino Yamanaka
 took over their minds to make one act against the other, they would immediately know something is wrong and try to snap the other out of it.

History

In the past, they had an encounter with
Tsunade
 of the
Sannin
. Details of this are unknown, but she managed to exercise enough to make them fear her on sight.

During a mission, they killed their comrades for their food, then calmed down immediately after doing so. For their crimes they were locked up in the
Konoha Strict Correctional Facility
 after the incident, though the ones who apprehended them struggled to restrain them. In reality, even the prison was incapable of containing them. It was the guards' steady control and distribution of their food supply that kept them in line. If they are hungry, they would often break through their cell door, threatening the guards if they did not have any food, but would return docile to their cells if given some.

They caused trouble for
Naruto
 and
Team Asuma
 after being tricked by
Mizuki
 into causing a riot and escaping (having been told that
Orochimaru
 has a feast arranged for them and would provide good food for them every day).
 They were eventually stopped by
Tsunade
. Both seemed to recognise her, and were scared into submission by her extreme strength, which was great enough to send even them flying with a single flick. She convinced them to return to the prison by telling them that they would not receive dinner if they didn't return quickly.

Trivia

Their names are likely derived from the
Shintō gods

Fūjin
 and
Raijin
, two ogre-like gods of the wind and lightning, respectively.

References