The
Lightning Cutter
 is the special name for
Kakashi Hatake
's
Chidori
.

Overview

Kakashi's Chidori gained the name "Lightning Cutter" when he used it to split a bolt of lightning.
 Although this indicates greater finesse with Kakashi's Lightning Cutter than exists with the standard Chidori, it isn't clear how they differ because they are performed in fundamentally the same way: both concentrate
lightning

chakra
 in the hand; both are used to rapidly pierce targets; both cannot be safely used without the
Sharingan
.
 When
Deidara
 refers to
Sasuke Uchiha
's jutsu as Lightning Cutter, Sasuke corrects him and explains that his jutsu is technically only a Chidori.

Like the Chidori, the Lightning Cutter requires a large amount of chakra to be performed, placing a limit on how many times it can be used per day. In Part I, Kakashi can use it four times per day,
 which he increases to an unspecified number in Part II. During Part II, Kakashi demonstrates several new uses for the Lightning Cutter, such as forming one in each hand to counteract
powerful lightning attacks
.
 On another occasion, he
links
 his Lightning Cutter with one of his
shadow clone
's, using the arc of electricity to cut through multiple targets.
 He can also
flow
 it into
kunai
, enhancing its slicing power and giving him a method of throwing the Lightning Cutter.

Six Paths Application






Kakashi's Lightning Cutter infused with the Six Paths Power.



While Kakashi's body is briefly inhabited by the spirit of
Obito Uchiha
, he applies
Six Paths Power
 to his Lightning Cutter, allowing it to damage
Kaguya Ōtsutsuki
. He
combines
 this usage with
Kamui
, causing her counterattacks to pass through him harmlessly.

Trivia

After losing his Sharingan as a result of
Madara Uchiha
 stealing it during the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, Kakashi no longer uses Lightning Cutter for safety reasons due to being unable to compensate for tunnel vision in his eyes. To counter this, in
Kakashi Hiden
, Kakashi developed a new signature technique,
Lightning Release: Purple Electricity
, which functions similarly to Lightning Cutter, albeit can be used safely without the Sharingan.

The name Raikiri comes from a story about famous samurai,
Tachibana Dōsetsu
: Tachibana was in possession of a famous sword called Chidori (
千鳥
,
literally meaning:
 A Thousand Birds). One day, while taking shelter from the rain under a tree, a bolt of lightning struck him. However, Tachibana used his Chidori to cut the
Thunder God
 inside the lightning bolt, allowing him to survive. After this incident, he renamed his Chidori to Raikiri (
雷切
,
literally meaning:
 Lightning Cutter).

In the anime, the Lightning Cutter is usually depicted as blue, whereas the Chidori is depicted as white.

In
Kakashi Retsuden
, Kakashi encounters
Hakubi Shin
, a rogue ninja from
Konohagakure
 who claims to be able to use the Lightning Cutter. Although the technique is similar in appearance and how it's used, it's only an imitation that lacks the Lightning Cutter's raw power.

In
Naruto Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire
, when this technique was copied by
Hiruko
, he used the electrical energy to surge around the area, increasing the range of damage.

In the crossover comic series
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles x Naruto
, Kakashi performs a
cooperation ninjutsu
 with
Leonardo
 utilising the Lightning Cutter called
Lightning Katana
.

See Also

Hell Stab

Nadeshiko-Style Hardliner Gale Fist

References