The
Lightning Release: Lariat
 is a powerful taijutsu technique whereby the user charges at their opponent, striking them with a
Lariat
 move, which can be coated in
chakra
. A successful strike can blow away a target's entire chest with a direct hit, which may not kill them right away, but will ultimately kill them if they are not treated. The attack is rather straightforward, but very quick, powerful and is easily capable of knocking down an opponent.

Variants

When Killer B uses this attack, he creates either a
chakra cloak
 or
chakra bones
, both in the form of bull horns. He refers to this as his "Eighth" (
八本目
,
Happonme
) sword, next to his seven conventional katana. In Killer B's Version 2, the Lariat gains an increase in power due to the ox-skull he creates. He was able to pierce
Samehada
 while simultaneously blowing away
Kisame Hoshigaki
's chest.

When A uses it, he surrounds himself with his
Lightning Release Chakra Mode
, rather than tailed-beast chakra. His high-level chakra, which is comparable to that of a tailed beast's, would produce the same effect as Killer B's version. The two brothers can combine their efforts to perform a
Lightning Release: Double Lariat
, which is strong enough to decapitate the victim, even without chakra enhancements, due to the brothers' immense physical strength.

Trivia

This technique appears to be a signature skill that all Raikage are taught. Also, it is taught to the ninja, usually the Raikage's sibling, who earns the title of "B" so as to be a tag-team partner with the Raikage and be able to perform this technique
simultaneously
 on the same target.

As with many of the techniques of
Kumogakure
 ninja, this technique has an English name given kanji that somewhat match the pronunciation. Usually, the kanji would be pronounced as
Rairi Nettō
.

Similarly to the Fourth Raikage's
Liger Bomb
, the Lariat is a highly feared move within
Puroresu
 (Japanese professional wrestling). Killer B even shouts "Wheee!" when attacking with the Lariat, a nod to pro wrestler
Stan Hansen
 who popularised the Lariat in Japan.

In the
Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Storm
,
Might Guy
's "
Oneself's Rule
" shows him performing what appears to be a regular lariat.

References