The user shoots a bolt of electricity from their hand to strike a target. It was invented by
Kakashi Hatake
 as a replacement for the
Lightning Cutter
, which he could no longer safely use after the loss of his
Sharingan
. In
Kakashi Hiden
, Kakashi typically uses Purple Electricity to strike targets from a distance, though he does sometimes use it through direct contact, as when he places his hand on spilled alcohol in order to transmit Purple Electricity throughout the surrounding area. He can modulate the intensity of the Purple Electricity, creating a blast strong enough to remove a target's
explosive
 vest but without setting off the explosive or otherwise affecting the target. Conversely, he is later shown using all his
chakra
 to perform a Purple Electricity powerful enough to induce the rain clouds he's falling through to start producing rain.

Purple Electricity has sometimes been shown used in ways reminiscent of the Lightning Cutter and Chidori, with the user gathering
lightning
 into their hand and quickly striking targets with it,
 or using it similarly to the
Chidori Current
, where the user releases bolts of purple lightning from all around their body in a omni-directional attack.
 After mastering
Uchiha Style Kenjutsu
 under Sasuke’s tutelage, Boruto learns to channel his own Purple Electricity through his blade, similar to
Chidori Katana
.

Trivia

The term "shiden" is part of the idiom "shiden'issen" (
紫電一閃
,
literally meaning:
 violet electricity flash), which refers to a sword flash or a quick brandishing of a sword akin to lightning.

Before his manga debut at using it, Boruto was listed as being able to use this jutsu himself.
 In the anime, Boruto originally used this technique through the
Shinobi Gauntlet
. Boruto evidently could not use it himself at the time, as it was what tipped off
Naruto Uzumaki
 that Boruto must be using the tool.

While he has yet to use the technique in the anime, Mitsuki is seen using it in the second version of the opening,
BAKU
.

See Also

Hell Stab

Pink Lightning

References