Throughout the
Naruto
 world, there have been many instances of modern-day technology being used by
shinobi
 or ordinary people.

Airship

This transportation is first developed by
Inari
 and his grandfather,
Tazuna
.
 However, Inari stated that their invention would make lots of people lose their jobs.

Battery





Batteries used to power up the transmission devices.



A
battery
 is one or more electrochemical cells that convert stored chemical energy into electrical energy. It is used in transmission devices, such as
televisions
. However, their time limit is short when used to communicate with all
five nations
' daimyō all over the world. They are also used to power the
Chakra Transmission Communication Device
 at headquarters and the mobile versions. These larger ones seem to have a longer life span.
 The kanji on the containers means "electricity" (
電
,
den
).

Camera





A camera used to broadcast the daimyō of the Land of Fire's image to the other daimyō.



By capturing light onto a light-sensitive surface, a
camera
 can either produce a still photograph or create and capture a series of images and sound to create a video.
Konohagakure
 shinobi are required to take a photograph to use in their ninja identification card following their
academy
 graduation.
 An alternate and more complex video camera was used to record the
daimyō
's meeting to form the
Allied Shinobi Forces
, though this version had several wires connecting it to the televisions and featured a much larger lens.

Computer





Computers monitoring Chōji Akimichi's vital signs during his operation.



A
computer
 is a machine that is programmed to carry out a user's set operations. Most computers are equipped with
memory
 for data and program storage. Several
laptops
, or mobile computers, were seen in the operating room of
Chōji Akimichi
 after his fight with
Jirōbō
 to monitor his
vital signs
.
 A desktop computer was also seen in the
Konoha Cryptanalysis Team
's office.
 Many of the computer's occurrences throughout the series were present to facilitate an injured person's recovery.
 After he became
Hokage
,
Naruto
 was seen using a laptop in his office, comparable to the ones we have in the real world.

DNA Testing Machine

A DNA testing machine is a device which can be used to determine if two different DNA samples genetically match.
[
citation needed
]

Electronic Mail

E-mail
 is a method of exchanging digital messages from an author to one or more recipients. Modern email operates across the Internet or other computer networks. E-mail was mentioned when Temari told Gaara the reason why Shikamaru sends a letter the old-fashioned way (because he doesn’t trust the security of the new electronic mailing system yet).

Mobile Phone

A
mobile phone
 (also known as a cellular phone, cell phone, hand phone, or simply a phone) is a phone that can make and receive telephone calls over a radio link while moving around a wide geographic area. When Naruto commented about how Sasuke didn't send a message, Shikamaru stated that it's hard to "recharge his phone" while on a mission.
[
citation needed
]

Telephone

A
telephone
, or phone, is a telecommunication device that allows two or more users to conduct a conversation when they are too far apart to be heard directly. A wired telephone was first seen when Naruto called Kakashi, regarding Sasuke's message.

Television






Television screens used between the daimyō for long-distance conversation.



A
television
 is a broadcasting device that transmits visual images of stationary or moving objects by satellite. A television was first seen in the series during the
Chūnin Exams
, when
Anko Mitarashi
 monitored the
Three Sand Siblings
' progress.
 A television could also be seen in the room of
Sasuke Uchiha
.
 Later in Part II, five large screen televisions were used to connect all of the daimyō together in order for them to concur on the formation of the Allied Shinobi Forces. The televisions run on
batteries
, but cannot be sustained for long periods of time over long-range connection.
 Years later, after the Fourth Shinobi World War, people have televisions in their homes.

Satellite Dish






A satellite used to transmit signals of the daimyō's broadcasts.



A
satellite dish
 is a device used to transmit data, such as still or moving images and sound, to other satellites. This data can then be viewed on a
television
. In the
Naruto
 series, several satellites were used to connect the five daimyō for them to settle on the decision to deal with the growing threat of
Akatsuki
.

Video Cassette Recorder






A Video Cassette Recorder as depicted in the series.



The
video cassette recorder
, or VCR, is a device that is used to play recorded audio and video from a
VHS
 tape. These videotapes contain magnetic tape for recording audio and video from security cameras or even television broadcasts so that the images and sound can be played back at a more convenient time. This was used in the series to play a recorded tape from a security camera showing
Anko Mitarashi
 the progress of the
Three Sand Siblings
 during the second stage of the
Chūnin Exams
.

Video Game

A
video game
 is an electronic game that involves human interaction with a user interface to generate visual feedback on a video device such as a TV screen or computer monitor.
Handheld game consoles
 with a
scroll
 shape are seen being played by
Boruto Uzumaki
,
Shikadai Nara
, and
Inojin Yamanaka
.

A game console with controller resembling a Sega Genesis can be seen in the ending "
Speed
".

A PlayStation 2 copy of a video game adaptation of
Make-Out Paradise
 can be seen in
Hyō no Sho
.

Video Tape






Iwashi Tatami holding a VHS tape.



A
video tape
 is a device that allows magnetic storage and recording on thin layers of
magnetised
 plastic in order to play pre-recorded audio and video. The only known type of video tape used in the series is a
VHS
 tape. The tape was used to show
Anko Mitarashi
 the progress of the
Three Sand Siblings
 during the second stage of the
Chūnin Exams
.

Wireless Radio






Guy holding a wireless radio.



A radio transmits signals by sending
electromagnetic waves
 with frequencies below those of
visible light
. They can then be received by other radios in the form of sound or a wide array of signals in order to make sure important information is protected. They were first used in the series during
Team 7
's mission to capture
Madam Shijimi
's cat
Tora
.

Trivia

When commenting on
Naruto
,
Masashi Kishimoto
 said that he designed
Konohagakure
 without specifying an era or location in the real world, noting that the village is "just a place in his head". Without a specific time period, Kishimoto included modern elements in the series such as convenience stores and movies, but specifically excluded projectile weapons and vehicles from the storyline. Regarding technology itself, Kishimoto said that "
Naruto
" would not have any firearms, yet one appeared behind a shopkeeper's desk on a page in Chapter 19. He said he may include automobiles, aircraft, and "low-processing" computers; Kishimoto specified the computers would "maybe" be eight-bit and that they would "definitely not" be sixteen-bit.

The characters in
Naruto SD: Rock Lee no Seishun Full-Power Ninden
 have been shown to use cell phones similar to the new technology development.

References