The
Living Corpse Reincarnation
 is a technique that was developed by
Orochimaru
 that allows him to transfer his
soul
 to someone else's body. It is also referred to as the "Eternal Youth and Immortality Technique". It was developed in order to fuel his dream of acquiring all the knowledge in existence, a feat that cannot be achieved in a single lifetime.

Usage

The Living Corpse Reincarnation immortalises one's mind, transferring it to a stronger body before the current host rots. By repeating this process periodically, this effectively allows the user to remain in the realm of living, so long as they can keep the host body alive while residing within.

Orochimaru can only perform this technique once every three years. It also seems that when the three years are almost over, he is forced to move into another host, as the previous one begins to weaken and reject him. Presumably, if he had a proper container, he could stay in the host for a full lifetime. The fact that he wanted to prepare
Sasuke Uchiha
 and
Kimimaro
 for the transfer before performing it reinforces this.

To perform this technique, Orochimaru reveals his
true form
: a gigantic white snake composed of smaller white snakes, by abandoning his current host's body. Orochimaru then swallows the new host and takes him or her to a separate, mental plane where he envelops the mind of his victim. The snake body then dies and falls apart, and Orochimaru's soul dominates the body (though the
Sharingan
 seems to be able to reverse the process against Orochimaru, which also grants the host Orochimaru's supply of chakra and powers). The souls of the hosts are kept alive within Orochimaru, leaving them "still alive", in a sense (albeit suppressed), and when Orochimaru switches hosts, the souls leave with him. Apparently if the host of these souls' chakra level falls enough it is possible for them to resurface in material form as seen with Orochimaru surfacing with his
Eight Branches Technique
 after Sasuke used up most of his chakra.

After taking over another body, Orochimaru modifies it to suit his theme of snakes, in order to increase his survival capabilities, such as
stretching and bending his body
,
reconnecting any severed parts
, and
shedding his skin to heal injuries
. This ensures that if Orochimaru cannot transfer to another body within the three years' time, he can allow his current one to greatly heal and evade attacks, rendering it virtually immortal; Sasuke refers this as the "
Power of the White Snake
" (
白蛇の力
,
Shirohebi no Chikara
).
 Orochimaru also
alters the face
 of his host to look like his original form.

After being revived through the
Evil Releasing Method
, Orochimaru seemingly circumvented this process, emerging in a slightly different snake form and then slithering into a
White Zetsu
 clone's mouth.

Known Hosts or Candidates

Hosts

Unknown person — when Orochimaru uses his Living Corpse Reincarnation on Sasuke, one of his past hosts is seen in Orochimaru and Sasuke's mental plane.

Unknown person — when Orochimaru uses his Living Corpse Reincarnation on Sasuke, another one of his past hosts is seen in Orochimaru and Sasuke's mental plane.

Unknown female — for replacing the hand Itachi Uchiha severed; left body to escape the effects of his arms being
sealed away
.

Gen'yūmaru
 — a desperate temporary replacement body before Sasuke Uchiha; left body for Sasuke Uchiha.

White Zetsu Clone
 — for the
cells
 of
Hashirama Senju
, as well as to escape the fatal injury of
releasing
 the
Dead Demon Consuming Seal
.

Candidates

Itachi Uchiha
 — for the
Sharingan
; failed due to Orochimaru being unable to defeat him.

Kimimaro
 — for the
Shikotsumyaku
; rejected due to terminal disease.

Guren
 — for the
Crystal Release
; rejected due to being too late and loss of interest.
(anime only)

Sasuke Uchiha
 — for the
Sharingan
; postponed due to being overpowered by Sasuke, then sealed away before another of his consciousnesses was released by the
Evil Releasing Method
.

References