The
Logistical Support and Medical Division
 (
後方支援医療部隊
,
Kōhōshien Iryō Butai
,
English TV:
 Logistics and Medical Unit) of the
Allied Shinobi Forces
 was a group of
medical-nin
 from five hidden villages that have been allied together in preparation for the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, which was led by
Shizune
. Each member bears a distinctive supply bag on their back.

History

Upon its formation, Shizune informs the members of the division that
Tonton
 is not to be eaten under any circumstance.
 After they have all of the equipment they need, they are mobilised alongside with the rest of the
Allied Shinobi Forces
.
 According to
Shikaku Nara
's revised the battle-strategy, Shizune later separates her division in order to guarantee that medical-nin are evenly distributed amongst the other divisions to better attend to the wounded.






The Logistical Support and Medical Division compound.



The medical division, as well as the medical ninja from each division, later regroups behind the armies' defensive line, setting up a station where injured or tired shinobi can recuperate. The compound's entrance was guarded by two
Akimichi clan
 members at the entrance along with
sensors
 who crossed-check the chakra of anyone entering the area with headquarters. Despite those precautions, a
White Zetsu Army
 clone was able to infiltrate the base disguised as
Neji Hyūga
 and assassinated at least five medics; these casualties include Hino (
ヒノ
), Takemaru (
タケマル
), and Toyosa (
トヨサ
).
Sakura Haruno
 uncovers the Zetsu's true identity, catches it when it tries to kill her too, and warns headquarters about the Zetsu's ability.






Naruto aiding the Logistical Support and Medical Division in defeating the White Zetsu Army clones.



After the clone is uncovered, the whole compound is locked down with anyone who moved in the slightest considered an enemy as Shizune and Sakura conducted an autopsy on the clone that was captured with an Akimichi guarding them. After two transformed White Zetsu clones almost gain entry to the compound, one of
Naruto Uzumaki
's
shadow clones
 arrive at the compound and with the help of the others, begin weeding out the disguised White Zetsu Army clones from within their midst.

References