"
Loser
" (
ウスラトンカチ
,
Usuratonkachi
,
Viz:
 Buffoon) is chapter 6 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 manga.

Synopsis

Naruto
 enters
Tailed Beast Mode
 and holds
Momoshiki
's attack back. He considers using a
Tailed Beast Ball
 on it, but changes his mind.
Boruto
 questions why he would do that, and
Sasuke
 explains that Naruto could just blast the attack away, but doing so would destroy much of the surrounding land. Momoshiki takes Naruto's course of action as proof of being an inferior form of life. Naruto takes the full force of the attack, as Boruto recalls Sasuke's words about Naruto's past struggles. Boruto wakes up at the hospital, where everyone was brought to after the attack.
 He finds his mother being treated by
Sakura
, with
Himawari
 by her side. Sakura explains
Hinata
 was injured trying to keep Momoshiki and
Kinshiki
 from taking Naruto. Full of regret, Boruto runs out of the hospital, tripping on a medical kit. He notices he's still wearing his
Kote
, and angrily removes and tosses it aside. He goes to the
Hokage
's office, and recalls his previous criticisms of Naruto. He finds and puts on Naruto's old jacket, and considers himself a loser. Sasuke agrees with him. Sasuke points out the similarities between Boruto's current situation and Naruto's when he was his age, prompting Boruto to ask Sasuke what Naruto did back then. Sasuke thinks Boruto is starting to overcome his weaknesses. Sasuke tells Boruto to ask Naruto himself, as Sasuke is still able to sense his chakra. Boruto asks Sasuke why he would look after him, and Sasuke replies that he is his student. Sasuke states Boruto is a strong shinobi, though Boruto has his doubts. Sasuke points out he is Naruto's son, is studying under Sasuke, and is a bigger loser than Naruto was. Boruto asks what he means, and Sasuke explains Boruto grew to hate losing, unwilling to give up or back down. The other
Kage
 volunteer to help rescuing Naruto.
Gaara
 says Boruto looks like Naruto did back then, but Sasuke points out he is missing something. On the
Academy
's roof, Sasuke
opens
 a portal with his
Rinnegan
 to where Naruto was taken. Sakura, Hinata,
Sarada
 and
Mitsuki
 come see them off. Boruto puts on Sasuke's scratched
forehead protector
, reminding Hinata how much he looks like Naruto. Hinata tells him to protect his father, and Sasuke notes he is finally acting like a shinobi. As he goes to enter the portal, Boruto promises to come back.