This article is about the Human God Tree clone of Bug. For the ninja, see
Mamushi (Genin)
.

Mamushi
 (
虫
) is an evolved, self-aware
Human God Tree
 produced by
Code
's
Ten-Tails
 after one of his
Claw Grimes
 ate
Bug
 and transformed into a tree.

Personality

Mamushi is a detached, indifferent man. Generally, he only talks when he feels a true need for it, to which in a very casual manner. At the same time, he is somewhat sadistic, as he will laugh at and mock someone's agony, even if said victim was his creator,
Code
. He also fears enraging Jura, making a point of avoiding any such provocation. His instinct has directed him towards wanting to devour Ada as he desires her advanced genes for the sake of making the Human God Trees prosper.

Appearance






Mamushi's full appearance.



Mamushi greatly resembles Bug and so takes on the appearance of a short, elderly humanoid with several missing teeth and an extremely long white beard. Like the other self-aware Human God Trees he wears clothing made from
Claw Marks
, with a studded band covering his nose and a long studded tabard with an oversized indigo fur collar draped over his body. Though he otherwise appears human, he possesses a pair of purple
Rinnegan
 and tridactyl feet similar to those of the Claw Grimes.

Abilities

Mamushi is considered a monster with power well-above his own creator
Code
.
 Mamushi has shown to have exceptional speed and strength, enough to catch Boruto off guard and slam him against a cliff wall with enough force to cause it to partially crumble. He also has the ability to transform his arms into a giant maw somewhat resembling a carnivorous plant. He seemingly has exceptional
sensor
 capacities, able to detect that
Ada
 was spying on him through her
Senrigan
. He likewise can
suppress
 his chakra from being sensed by others. Like his comrades, Mamushi can move through
Claw Marks
 for transportation. As noted by
Koji Kashin
, Mamushi possesses the ability to
self-replicate
 endlessly. While similar in nature to the
Fission Technique
, this ability can both create as many individual recreations as desired, with no drop in chakra levels or physical might.

New Era: Part II

Boruto's Return Arc

Main article:
Boruto's Return Arc






Mamushi attacking Boruto.



When
Boruto Uzumaki

followed
 Code to the
dimension
 where he kept his Ten-Tails imprisoned, what remained of it suddenly disappeared. Moments later, Mamushi appeared, surprising Code as the actual Bug that had been transformed into tree still remained nearby. Boruto explained that Mamushi wasn't the man named Bug and was, in fact, a
Human God Tree
, having evolved into a new form due to Code's modifications. He proceeded to attack Boruto, threatening to devour him and naming him an
Ōtsutsuki
. Three other evolved Human God Trees then appeared, each bearing a familiar likeness, with the apparent leader explaining that they had gained self-awareness.

Following Boruto and Code's retreat, the leader declared that their newly awakened curiosity was temporarily overwhelming their instinct to devour, but that Boruto would not be able to escape his fate. He later joined the other Human God Trees in their base beneath the roots of a giant tree, where they discussed their newly developing individual identities and the emotions stimulating them, which were producing cravings that they couldn't explain. The leader,
Jura
, suggested that they follow their instincts and choose targets to devour, believing that it would enlighten them as to their true nature. Bug's Human God Tree clone realised that
Ada
 was watching them using her
Senrigan
 and to her dismay, approached her projection, declaring that she would be his target.

Later, as Hidari was destroyed by Boruto and Jura prepared to kill the ninja, Mamushi appeared, informing him that investigations have revealed that Boruto has an
accomplice
, explaining the intimate knowledge he has about the Human God Trees. As Mamushi noticed Hidari's Thorn Soul Bulb, he reminded Jura that they needed to restore Hidari quickly before the bulb rots. The Human God Trees then returned to their lair. There, after reviving Hidari, they joined the group in the birth of a new sentient Human God Tree,
Ryū
. As the new sentient Human God Tree adjusted to his new identity, it was noticed that Code was hiding and he was captured. The lone Kara member demanded that the Human God Trees go after Kawaki and Boruto to produce Chakra Fruit for him to consume. As Jura made it clear that Code is not in charge anymore, Code recklessly attacked the Human God Tree leader, losing his right hand in the process. Mamushi laughed at Code's plight. When Jura offered instead to give Code a Chakra Fruit after he killed Boruto and his accomplice. Code accepted and left.

Matsuri and Ryū Arc

Main article:
Matsuri and Ryū Arc

Later, after
Matsuri
 and
Ryū
 left for a mission to find Boruto, Mamushi listened as
Jura
 explained to his fellow God Trees about his revelation. He concluded that the sentient God Trees are not dissimilar to humans, as their emotions can easily be shaken and changed, which can prove a key weakness to their defeat.

Post Matsuri and Ryū Arc

Main article:
Post Matsuri and Ryū Arc

As Jura began crying after finishing a novel, voicing his belief that they needed more intel on feelings of love, Mamushi came to the revelation on why he desired to devour Ada. He believed that her superior genes would grant great information for the Human God Trees.

Days later, Mamushi made his move on Konoha to get Ada. He used his
Division
 and snuck in with his chakra suppressed.

Trivia

His name is written with the kanji 虫, meaning "bug", in reference to the person he was cloned from, though the kanji is also used to describe worms and snakes. The kana reading, "
Mamushi
", is a species of
pit viper
.

References