This article is about the ninja. For the God Tree clone of Bug, see
Mamushi
.

Mamushi
 (
マムシ
,
Mamushi
) is a
shinobi
 from
Sunagakure
 and a teammate of
Sana
 and
Saya
.

Personality

Mamushi appears somewhat deranged, loving the notion of battling and violence. At the same time, he is very submissive before Saya, to the point where he refers to her as "Lady" (
お嬢さま
,
Ojō-sama
). Mamushi is also easily intimidated by her, as he shirks away, when she is enraged.

Appearance

Mamushi has short spiky black hair and wide-open eyes with noticeable veins. He also wears a blue Suna
forehead protector
 in a bandana-style around his mouth. He wears an orange poncho around his neck, green midriff suspenders, and brown pants with long arm warmers and bandages around his arms.

Abilities

Mamushi seems to favour close and mid-range combat, fighting with
long snakes
 he has
hidden in his sleeve
. The snakes are venomous, injecting paralysing venom in his opponents.

Interlude

In Naruto's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths






Mamushi and Sana fighting Chōji.



Mamushi, alongside his team, participated in the joint
Chūnin Exams
. He and his team were one of the few who managed to qualify for the second round. The next day, the second exam proctor —
Temari
, announced the start of the second round taken place within
Demon Desert
.
 On the third day of the second exam, with the goal of having to pass by obtaining an Earth and Heaven scroll from an enemy team, his team located
Team Asuma
. Then, Mamushi and
Sana
 clashed against
Chōji
. As the battle wages, a
giant
 Chōji restrains both him and Sana, but they are soon freed from the Konoha-nin's grasp by Saya who turned her
technique
 onto Chōji after leaving Ino's body.






Mamushi disguised in sand.



Ultimately, Ino succeeds in repelling Saya from Chōji's mind, to which the large ninja quickly counters and attacks the Suna team, forcing them to retreat. After regrouping, Saya demands to take revenge on Team Asuma for the recent humiliation. After finding Team Asuma, along with producing a sandstorm to keep the Konoha-nin at bay while Saya unleashes a swarm of sand puppets to attack them, Sana masks Mamushi with sand for an additional sneak attack. Despite this effort, Sakura emerges through the sand and defeats the team with a
single punch
.






Mamushi and his teammates listening to Gaara's speech.



Later, Mamushi's team arrived at the main building for the end of the second exams. However, the Chūnin Exams were ended early before starting the finals due to controversy happening in the second exam. Instead, it was decided by
Gaara
 that a report on each participant would be sent to their respective village leader for them to decide if they would be promoted.

Trivia

His name is likely a reference to his use of venomous snakes. The
mamushi
 is a species of
pit viper
.

References