This article is about Mangetsu Hōzuki. For the character with the same title "Second Coming of the Demon", see
Suigetsu Hōzuki
.

Mangetsu Hōzuki
 (
鬼灯満月
,
Hōzuki Mangetsu
), reputed as the
Second Coming of the
Demon
 (
鬼人の再来
,
Kijin no Sairai
),
 was a
shinobi
 from
Kirigakure
's
Hōzuki clan
, and a member of the previous generation of the
Seven Ninja Swordsmen of the Mist
.

Background

Both Mangetsu and his brother
Suigetsu
 trained with the intention of becoming members of the Seven Ninja Swordsmen of the Mist. This dream acted as their motivation for them to complete gruesome missions day after day. Mangetsu eventually succeeded in becoming a member of the Seven Swordsmen and learned how to wield all seven of the swords.
 With his premature death, Suigetsu seemingly became demotivated from their dream.

Personality

As stated by
Kisame Hoshigaki
, Mangetsu was more humble and level-headed than his younger brother, Suigetsu.

Appearance






Mangetsu's full appearance.



Mangetsu had purple eyes,
 shoulder-length, white-coloured hair and pointed, shark-like teeth — a trait which members of the Seven Ninja Swordsmen of the Mist possess. He wore an outfit very similar to his brother's, which consisted of a black, sleeveless shirt, light-purple-coloured pants and striped leg-warmers typical of his village. Like his brother, he carried a water bottle attached to a belt around his waist and wore bandages around his neck — another trait shared by the seven swordsmen — and the standard Kirigakure
forehead protector
. Overall, Mangetsu and Suigetsu bore great resemblance to one another.

Abilities

As a member of the Seven Ninja Swordsmen of the Mist's strongest generation, Mangetsu was one of the most powerful shinobi ever produced within Kirigakure. Mangetsu was also capable of using
Silent Killing
, as seen when fighting the
Third Division
 of the
Allied Shinobi Forces
 while under the effect of the
Hiding in Mist Technique
. In the anime, as a testament of his skills, he was the last of the Seven Swordsmen standing when his six revived comrades were sealed, even without his sword.

Ninjutsu

Nature Transformation






Mangetsu killing several shinobi.



As a member of the Hōzuki clan, Mangetsu is proficient in the use of
Water Release
 manipulation and can use his clan's
secret
 technique to
liquefy
 his body at will. With knowledge and use of this technique, it can also be assumed that he is well-versed in his clan's other secret techniques that revolve around its use; showcased by his ability to fire high-velocity
projectiles
 from his finger.

Kenjutsu

Mangetsu was a very gifted swordsman, having been accepted into the Seven Ninja Swordsmen of the Mist, and eventually being able to masterfully wield all seven blades.
 According to his younger brother, Suigetsu, he was called the "Second Coming of the Demon" (
鬼人の再来
,
Kijin no Sairai
).
 His skill, power and chakra were such that he was able to wield all seven blades of the swordsmen, including the notoriously picky blade:
Samehada
. His recognition of wielding the seven famed swords was further shown from him being trusted to carry all them in a scroll until battling.

Part II

Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation

Main article:
Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation






Mangetsu and the swordsmen preparing to attack.



Amidst the battle with the
Third Division
, the
reincarnated
 previous generation of the Seven Ninja Swordsmen of the Mist are
summoned
 by
Pakura
 and
Gari
, under
Kabuto Yakushi
's instruction, with the intention of overwhelming the opposition. Amongst their number was Mangetsu, who after being futilely bombarded by various techniques, retrieved four of the swordsmen's blades from within a
scroll
 in his possession. Entering the fray whilst concealed by a
thick mist
, Mangetsu began a
silent
 massacre without a weapon, using just his Water Gun Technique to kill his targets. With
Zabuza Momochi
's defeat, however, the mist cleared, exposing Mangetsu to the enemy.

In the anime, he was seen fighting against the Third Division, along with
Fuguki Suikazan
, Gari and Pakura. After Fuguki was sealed by
Sai
's
Sealing Technique: Tiger Vision Staring Bullet
, he, Gari and Pakura retreated into the forest.

Fourth Shinobi World War: Climax

Main article:
Fourth Shinobi World War: Climax

By the time
Kakashi Hatake
 and
Might Guy
 departed for
Naruto Uzumaki
's location the following day, Mangetsu had been sealed by the Third Division.
 Later, with the release of the Impure World Reincarnation technique, a light of sorts encased Mangetsu's sealed body as the technique was dispelled, and his soul was then returned to the
afterlife
.

In Other Media

Video Games

Mangetsu Hōzuki is a playable character in the following video games:

Game name
Japanese release
English release
Naruto Mobile
2016
2016
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Blazing
14 July 2016
24 August 2016
Naruto: Shinobi Collection Shippū Ranbu
27 July 2015
Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Online
14 April 2013
20 July 2016

Trivia

Mangetsu (
満月
) means "full moon", and Hōzuki (
鬼灯
,
literally meaning:
 demon lantern) is the Japanese word for the "chinese lantern" or "winter cherry", a fruit which resemble Chinese paper lanterns; like all members of the Seven Ninja Swordsmen, his surname is derived from a type of
produce
.

It is likely that Mangetsu Hōzuki might have been the previous owner of the
Hiramekarei
 since he was one of the previous generation of Seven Swordsman but was not seen with a sword like the other reincarnated swordsmen, as it was in
Chōjūrō
's possession. This is also seen with Fuguki Suikazan, who was the previous owner of Samehada, and his sword was in the possession of
Killer B
. In the
team ultimate technique
 with each swordsmen wielding a different blade in
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 4
, Mangetsu wields Hiramekarei.

References