"
Manifestation…!!
" (
顕現…!!
,
Kengen…!!
,
Viz:
 Manifestation!!) is chapter 43 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 manga.

Summary

Mitsuki
 and
Boruto
 explain to
Kawaki
 what the
Chidori
 is.
Sarada
 destroys Boro's core, causing his
scientific ninja tools
 to go haywire.
Boro
 swells up and goes on a rampage, attacking the surrounding area. Kawaki explains he's unfocused, but he can still hurt them, so they should focus on saving
Naruto
 instead, who Mitsuki points out might be strong enough to defeat Boro. Since they can't risk breaking the seal, Kawaki suggests using their
Kāma
 to gate the space inside the seal with where they are, similar to how they got there. They're successful in freeing an unconscious Naruto, and Kawaki notes he should be ok since his prosthetic hand is still functional. Mitsuki is suddenly slammed down by one of Boro's newly grown tentacles, knocking him out. Kawaki counterattacks with a Kāma blast, and Boro punches him through the terrain, also knocking him out. Sarada attempts a
Fire Release
, but Boro grabs her in his overgrown hand before she can finish her hand seals and squeezes her. Boruto kicks him in the elbow, freeing her. Boruto attempts to check on her, but is knocked away by Boro. Boro punches Boruto into the ground, knocking him out, but Boro's second punch hits just the ground, Boruto having vanished. Boruto floats above Boro, having become possessed by
Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki
; manifested a horn, his Kāma extending through his entire right side, and his right eye appearing featureless.
 Sarada watches as "Boruto" berates Boro as an inferior creature. Perceiving Boruto as an
Ōtsutsuki
, Boro attempts to punch him, but Boruto destroys his arm with a kick and tosses him aside with another one. Talking about himself in the third person, Boruto comments he's almost out of chakra, so he flies down to Naruto and
absorbs
 some from him. Boruto continues to toss Boro around as Mitsuki wakes up and observes. Boruto lands an enormous
Rasengan
 on Boro, leaving only a few appendages and a crater behind. Kawaki wakes up and asks Mitsuki what's happened, who isn't sure. Boruto talks to himself it's still ways away he'll lose it all, before his horn and Kāma recede, and he begins falling from the sky. Mitsuki
extends his arm
 and catches him. Boruto asks what happened, having no memory of it. Sarada notes Boruto seemed like someone else and that Kāma appears to be more dangerous than they thought. At a Kara facility,
Koji
 arrives, and is informed by
Amado
 that
Jigen
 is still not even 10% recharged. Koji asks about Boro and
Code
, who are respectively guarding Naruto and the
Ten-Tails
. Amado asks Koji if he's going to do it, and he confirms he's taking Jigen down.