Matatabi
 (
又旅
), more commonly known as the
Two-Tails
 (
ニ尾
,
Nibi
), is one of the nine
tailed beasts
. It was last sealed within
Yugito Nii
 of
Kumogakure
.

Background






The young tailed beasts with Hagoromo.



Matatabi and the tailed beasts first came into being in the waning days of
Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki
, who used his
Creation of All Things Technique
 to divide the
Ten-Tails
' chakra into nine separate bodies and giving each a name. Some time after being created, the Sage explained to the young tailed beasts that a link existed between them despite their separation. He also foretold of a day when they would be brought together again - though not as they were - and that at that time someone would emerge to show them what true power is.
 In the anime, before his death, Hagoromo sent Matatabi to live in a temple built for the purpose of protecting it in a canebrake region.
 Over time, many people came to believe that Matatabi, like
Shukaku
, was once a human that turned into a
living ghost
 (
生霊
,
ikiryō
).






Matatabi's wall mural inside the Falls of Truth.



At some point after the creation of Konohagakure,
Hashirama Senju
 captured eight of the tailed beasts and sold Matatabi and
Gyūki
 to Kumogakure at the
Five Kage Summit
, as a sign of friendship, peace, and to ensure a balance of power amongst their new villages.
 That peace didn't last, and the
First Shinobi World War
 started, In a cavern behind the
Falls of Truth
, where
jinchūriki
 learn to control their tailed beasts' power, there are wall murals of Matatabi and Gyūki, which indicates how long they were associated with the
Land of Lightning
.

The tailed beast would end up being sealed within
Yugito Nii
 when she was two years old. She was placed into a detestable training programme in order to learn to control Matatabi's power.
 In the anime, Yugito agreed to have
Nekobaa
 collect Matatabi's paw print for the
Paw Encyclopaedia
.

Personality

Compared to most of the tailed beasts, Matatabi has shown to be respectful and polite towards others, speaking in a formal manner using "watashi" (
私
) when referring to itself and using
honourifics
 when addressing Naruto while introducing itself to the young shinobi.

Appearance






A young Matatabi.



Matatabi is two-tailed, like a
nekomata
, and is completely engulfed in flames, like a
Kasha
 (though it's flames are an animated cobalt blue and black). It also has heterochromatic eyes, the right being yellow and the left being green, similar to an
odd-eyed cat
 without pupils. When forced to transform by
Tobi
, Matatabi increased in size compared to when Yugito unleashed it.
 During the last remaining days of the Sage of Six Paths' life, Matatabi was a young flaming kitten much smaller than its present-day self, but was still much larger than the Sage.

Abilities

See also:
Jinchūriki Forms






Matatabi creating a Tailed Beast Ball.



As a
tailed beast
, Matatabi has an enormous supply of
chakra
 that it can
transfer
 to others. It also has powerful healing capacities, able to mend injuries in themselves and others in seconds.
 Likewise, Matatabi is effectively immortal, as when it dies, it will eventually revive, albeit in a younger form. Also like all its kind, Matatabi create the
Tailed Beast Ball
. Matatabi also has flexible muscles, which grant it great reflexes and agility despite its large size.
 Matatabi's raw strength can easily
crush
 an opponent or send them flying with one swipe of its paw.
 When combined with the other tailed beasts' tails, it could shatter and completely obliterate a
senjutsu
-enhanced complete
Susanoo
.
 As its appearance suggest, it can use
Fire Release
, able to create
fireballs
.

Part II

Akatsuki Suppression Mission

Main article:
Akatsuki Suppression Mission






The Akatsuki extracting the Two-Tails from Yugito.



Soon after her introduction, Yugito was captured by two
Akatsuki
 members,
Hidan
 and
Kakuzu
, although it is unknown who was specifically assigned to capture her. Despite luring her two pursuers into a closed space, sealing the exits, and transforming herself into the Two-Tails, Yugito was overpowered and rendered unconscious by the two Akatsuki members.
Zetsu
 later arrived to take her off their hands. After three days of the Akatsuki extracting the Two-Tails into the
statue
 from Yugito and getting sealed, its jinchūriki died afterwards as a result of having her tailed beast extracted.

Fourth Shinobi World War: Climax

Main article:
Fourth Shinobi World War: Climax






The remaining jinchūriki transform into their tailed beasts.



After
Son Gokū
 was resealed into the
Demonic Statue of the Outer Path
, Tobi, who was intent on going all-out from that point on, forced Yugito to fully transform into the Two-Tails. The opposing tailed beasts prepared to attack the shinobi, but they were
rebuffed
 by a fully-transformed
Naruto
. Wasting no time in their attacks, the Two-Tails attempted to pounce from behind while Naruto and
Kurama
 were incapacitated by the
Six-Tails
, but both the giant cat and slug got slammed with such force that they were sent flying. The opposing beasts regrouped and then prepared a collaborative Tailed Beast Ball, which was met by one from Naruto and Kurama.






Matatabi, alongside the other jinchūriki and tailed beasts, encounters Naruto.



As Naruto entered a deeper plane of the tailed beasts' consciousness, he met the remaining five tailed beasts and their jinchūriki. Summoning Naruto before it, the giant cat told the young shinobi that it intended to keep the promise it made to Son Gokū. As it told Naruto to stretch out his hand, Matatabi introduced itself. Later, as Matatabi was freed from the
chakra receiver
, it affirmed Kurama's belief that Naruto was the person the
Sage of the Six Paths
 had spoken about so long ago before being resealed into the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path.

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Main article:
Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki






The tailed beasts being freed from Obito.



Matatabi appeared alongside the other tailed beasts with the exception of Gyūki and Shukaku when the Ten-Tails looked down at Naruto. The image of the tailed beasts, along with a silhouette of the Sage of Six Paths, drove the Ten-Tails to a fit as it evolved further. Later, Naruto, with the help of the remaining
Allied Shinobi Forces
, managed to free Matatabi by pulling its chakra out of Obito's body, alongside that of the other tailed beasts.






The tailed beasts working together to attack Madara.



When Madara ran towards the tailed beasts, both Shukaku and
Gaara
 conjured
numerous sand bullets
 and were able to restrain the Uchiha's movements. Using the opportunity to attack, the tailed beasts each took a swing at their opponent, giving sand-manipulating duo an opening to use their
Desert Layered Imperial Funeral Seal
, but Madara managed to escape the sand pyramid with his Susanoo. As Naruto in
Tailed Beast Mode
 pinned Madara down with a tail, Matatabi and the other tailed beasts joined in and did the same to increase the damage, but the Uchiha survived their attacks and retreated to a safe distance. After he received his own right Rinnegan eye from a White Zetsu clone, Madara quickly summoned the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path from Obito's body, and used the Rinnegan to
repel
 the tailed beasts. With the tailed beasts stunned, Madara then
chained
 them up and sealed them back into the Demonic Statue.






The tailed beasts reunite with Hagoromo and Naruto.



Later, the chakra Matatabi transferred to Naruto earlier, manifested within Naruto's subconscious along with the other tailed beasts to speak with the young jinchūriki and the spirit of Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki. There, they all voiced their shared belief to the Sage that Naruto was the child of prophecy.

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Main article:
Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes






The tailed beasts being freed from the Ten-Tails.



After Madara's ambitions were cut short by
Black Zetsu
, who revealed to be the silent manipulator of shinobi history since it was first created by
Kaguya Ōtsutsuki
, the black entity used Madara's body as a medium to resurrect its creator. During the battle against the tyrannical princess, Matatabi and the other tailed beasts continued to support Naruto by giving him
their combined power
 to overwhelm her. Ultimately, Kaguya was defeated by Naruto and
Sasuke
, who used the
Six Paths — Chibaku Tensei
 to eject all the tailed beasts from her and seal her away inside a newly-created
moon
 within her own
dimension
.

After the spirits of Hagoromo and the past Kage summoned both the tailed beasts and
Team 7
 back to the real world, the tailed beasts began to discuss their plans for the future since they were finally free. Sasuke, however, made his own intentions known: removing as many people as possible who could get in the way of his plans of leading the world through a revolution to do away with current shinobi systems, including killing all the current Kage and tailed beasts. Just as Sasuke swiftly
subdued
 the tailed beasts with his Rinnegan and sealed them within his
Chibaku Tensei
, Naruto reassured the tailed beasts that he would save them once again. After Naruto was able to defeat and reform Sasuke, the two dispelled the Infinite Tsukuyomi and Sasuke released Matatabi, along with the other tailed beasts, from their prisons.

New Era

One-Tail Escort Arc

Main article:
One-Tail Escort Arc

When
Urashiki Ōtsutsuki
 began targeting Shukaku for its chakra, it was deduced he was interested in all the tailed beasts' chakra. Naruto organised a telepathic meeting with the other tailed beasts. However, Matatabi,
Kokuō
, and
Chōmei
 each refused to accept aid from humans in fear of being captured and used again by them, despite their trust in Naruto and thus decided to not attend the meeting.

Kawaki Arc

Main article:
Kawaki Arc

In the anime, Matatabi was gathered with the other tailed beasts as they sensed Kurama's chakra vanishing after it
sacrificed
 its life in the battle against
Isshiki Ōtsutsuki
.

In Other Media

Video Games

Matatabi is playable as Yugito's awakening in
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 3
 ,
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm Revolution
, and
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 4
. Matatabi also appears as a boss in
Naruto Shippūden: Ninja Destiny 3
 and
Naruto Shippūden: Kizuna Drive
, though in the latter, only the
false

copy
 of Matatabi appears.

Trivia

"Matatabi" (
又旅
) literally means "travel again", which is probably an adaptation to not only the nekomata (
猫又
), but also the Japanese name for
silver vine
, a plant noted for having an effect on cats much like that of
catnip
.

A
bakeneko
 (
化け猫
,
monster cat
) is a popular animal
yōkai
 in Japanese folklore, and is known for its shape-shifting abilities and being able to walk and speak like a human. It was believed that when a bakeneko reaches a certain age, its tail would split in two, becoming a
nekomata
 (
猫又
,
forked-cat
). Matatabi also draws inspiration from the
kasha
, a yōkai that is often depicted as a giant flaming cat, which it can interchange with the bakeneko and nekomata. In addition, all these yōkai were said to have the powers of
necromancy
, and had been associated with
strange fires
 and other unexplainable occurrences.

References