This article is about the mercenary. For the Konoha Anbu, see
Mezu
.

Meizu
 (
冥頭
) and with his older twin brother
Gōzu
 were
chūnin
 of
Kirigakure
 before
defecting
 and becoming mercenaries alongside
Zabuza Momochi
.

Background

He and his brother fled the village with Zabuza when he failed in his attempt to kill the
Mizukage
, and thereafter began working for him as assassins.

Personality

In sharp contrast to his brother, Meizu is described as having a short temper and is extremely violent while torturing his foes. He has also been described as a hooligan.

Appearance






Meizu's full appearance.



Meizu had shoulder-length, wild dark-brown hair and dark eyes. He wears a rebreather that covers the lower half of his face and a large, clawed,
poisonous

gauntlet
 on his left arm which had a chain coming out of it that had the other end attached to his brother's own gauntlet. He wore a camouflage suit with bandages around his waist, dark-coloured, knee-length sandals and several pouches around his waist. His Kirigakure
forehead protector
 had two horns on it.

Abilites






The twins' coordinated attack.



Gōzu and Meizu are a paragon of
coordination attacking
. Meizu's large metal gauntlets house a retractable shuriken chain running between the two of them, which they can use to bind an enemy and then slice them to pieces. In the event that the shuriken chain is neutralised, Gōzu also has a release mechanism to free him from Meizu for individual attacks. He uses the sharp,
poisoned
 claws on his gauntlet to shred his foes. Meizu was also skilled in stealth, capable of hiding right outside the gates of Konoha without being noticed.

Ninjutsu

Nature Transformation

Meizu and Gōzu have proven skilled in
Water Release
 being capable of
appearing out of puddles
, hiding in them when needed.

Part I

Prologue — Land of Waves

Main article:
Prologue — Land of Waves






 stops the Demon Brothers' assault.



At the start of the series Zabuza sends them to kill
Tazuna
. Using the
Water Release: Hiding in Water Technique
 to surprise
Team 7
. With Gōzu immediately launching his brother in front of him the pair are seemingly able to kill Kakashi with ease. As they move on to attack
Naruto Uzumaki
, they are stopped by
Sasuke Uchiha
 who breaks the chain connecting the two brothers. Still intent on killing them, the brother separate and attack the team. They are however stopped by
Kakashi Hatake
, and it is revealed that he had used the
Body Replacement Technique
 to escape their first attack. He later ties them to a tree so that they can be taken into custody. In the prologue novelisation, it is implied he and Gōzu escaped back to Zabuza after Team 7 left.

In Other Media

Video Games

Meizu is a playable character in the following video games:

Game name
Japanese release
English release
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Blazing
14 July 2016
24 August 2016

Trivia

Meizu's name is written with the kanji for "dark" (冥) and "head" (頭), indicating his mindset overshadowed by emotions, in contrast to his brother's more rational way of thinking.

According to the databook(s):

Meizu has completed 278 official missions in total: 68 D-rank, 167 C-rank, 43 B-rank, 0 A-rank, 0 S-rank.

In Japanese mythology Gōzu and Meizu are fearsome guardians of the Underworld known more commonly as
"Ox-Head" and "Horse-Face"
.

References