"
Melee!
" (
乱戦!!
,
Ransen!!
) is episode 102 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Tosaka
 reveals the tranquilliser he used on them is what he stole from
Jūgo
.
Sasami
 and
Momo
 activate their cursed seals to fight
Karin
 and
Sarada
, and
Team 15
 respectively. Tosaka tells
Boruto
 and
Suigetsu
 their friends won't be coming to save them. He explains the mission was a lie from the start, as he had no choice but to join them, the men he had sent before being captured at the border. Tosaka is glad to have been able to observe Jūgo up close, his goal being acquiring Jūgo's cursed seal. Boruto admonishes Tosaka for treating Jūgo like a research subject, who in turn retorts Boruto himself stressed to importance of dreams, his being creating the ultimate cursed seal weapon. Suigetsu covertly
turns his arm into water
 while Tosaka is distracted. Tosaka explains he had to bait Jūgo out, so he infected the birds. Suigetsu attempts to free Jūgo, but is tasered by other
Land of Rivers
 researchers before succeeding. The head researcher announces preparations to leave with Jūgo. As a demonstration for Boruto, Tosaka injects Jūgo with a special drug.
Sumire
 baits Momo with a
water clone
 and attacks him from a distance. Momo points out she left her friends vulnerable, and striking the ground, sends a lot of debris their way. Sumire protects them with a
water wall
, but a few rocks go through it. Momo criticises her split focus, and tells her to use her summon.
 Sumire summons
Nue
, but it's still small due to her depleted chakra. Sarada warns Karin that Sasami's bite will infect her with a cursed seal, and tracks Sasami's movements with her
Sharingan
. Sumire protects Nue from Momo, distracting him long enough for
Namida
 to hit him with her improved
Calling on Tears Technique
.
Wasabi
 joins in the attack with her
Cat Covering
, exciting Momo with the prospect of a more interesting fight. Sarada struggles with depleting chakra, but Karin is able to
lock on
 Sasami's chakra, showing them where Sasami will attack from. Sasami still knocks Sarada out, but Karin uses her
chakra chains
 to restrain her. Karin wants Sarada to
bite her for healing
, reasoning that her chains won't hold forever, wanting Sarada to still be able to fight. Karin reveals that long ago Sakura saved her life, and uses Sarada's reaction to it to make her bite her arm, asking Sarada to tell Sakura she has repaid her debt. Karin informs Sarada where Sasami will attack from, allowing Sarada to land a full hit on her, defeating her and destroying her cursed seal collar. Jūgo slowly transforms, and Tosaka explains the drug he used is meant to trigger his transformation, as he wants to witness his full power, despite Boruto's warning that not even he will be safe.
Mitsuki
 reports to
Konohamaru
, who decides against regrouping, and instead wants to go to the alleged researchers' boat downriver, where he believes they can find something to stop the infection. Momo defeats Namida and Wasabi, so Sumire distracts him with a water clone again to get them to safety. Despite Sumire's reservations, she agrees to let Namida and Wasabi have their chakra drained by Nue, so it can grow big again, strong enough to defeat Momo. A restored Nue goes up against Momo, with an assist from Sumire. They're able to defeat Momo and break his cursed seal collar. Sumire has to stop Nue from draining Momo's chakra. The other researchers check in on Tosaka, and attempt to kill Jūgo to prevent his transformation. Tosaka kills them instead with his cursed seal. On their way to the village, Sarada notices dawn is approaching, and changes course, concerned the wild geese will start to migrate, spreading the infection. Boruto can move again and begins to free Jūgo. Tosaka attempts to stop him, but is stopped by Suigetsu's
enlarged arm
. Commenting on his jutsu, Tosaka tasers Suigetsu again. Jūgo tells Boruto to flee, while his transformation proceeds and he breaks free of his bonds.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Sumire Kakei
Aya Endo
遠藤 綾
Endō Aya
Wasabi Izuno
Natsumi Yamada
山田 奈都美
Yamada Natsumi
Namida Suzumeno
Sara Matsumoto
松本 沙羅
Matsumoto Sara
Jūgo
Shuhei Sakaguchi
阪口 周平
Sakaguchi Shūhei
Suigetsu Hōzuki
Takashi Kondo
近藤 隆
Kondō Takashi
Karin
Toa Yukinari
行成 とあ
Yukinari Toa
Konohamaru Sarutobi
Hidenori Takahashi
高橋 英則
Takahashi Hidenori
Tosaka
Takehito Koyasu
子安 武人
Koyasu Takehito
Momo
Atsushi Tamaru
田丸 篤志
Tamaru Atsushi
Sasami
Yuka Iguchi
井口 裕香
Iguchi Yuka
Land of Rivers Research Group leader
Shinya Hamazoe
浜添 伸也
Hamazoe Shin'ya