The
Mind Body Switch Technique
 is the signature technique of the
Yamanaka clan
.

Overview

The user converts their consciousness to
spiritual energy
, which they send at a target. Their consciousness moves slowly towards the target and travels in a straight line. If the user misses their target, it will take several minutes for their consciousness to find its way back to their own body. To prevent this from happening, the Mind Body Switch should only be used against targets that are stationary or that are restrained. When their consciousness does successfully make it to the target, the user supplants the target's mind and takes total control of their body.

The Mind Body Switch is ideal for intelligence-gathering, and in fact that's why it was originally created;
 the target's body can be used to explore locations that the user can't enter and read documents that the user can't access.
 Users can take advantage of the target's physical abilities, such as a bird's flight to better recon an area.
 Users can also perform their own jutsu while possessing another, notably their
sensory
 skills.
 While possessing another's body, users can communicate with their targets.

Ordinarily, the Mind Body Switch lasts until the user chooses to release it. Targets with strong wills can force users from their body, something that becomes easier to do if the user is low on
chakra
.
 While a user is possessing a target, their own body is left inert. This isn't necessarily an issue in one-on-one encounters, but when facing multiple opponents this leaves their body vulnerable to attack. Furthermore, any damage the possessed body receives is done to their original body as well.
 It is for this reason that Yamanaka are so often teamed with members of the
Akimichi
 and
Nara clans
; the Akimichi keeps opponents at a distance, and Nara can use their
shadow
 to manipulate the Yamanaka's body.
 Strategically, the user can eliminate a number of the technique's weaknesses by completely trading bodies with a target, transferring the latter's consciousness to the user's body.
 In the anime, the
Akuta
, are immune to this technique.

Trivia

This technique utilises spiritual energy, making it likely to be
Yin Release
.

Rin no Sho
 lists the Mind Body Switch Technique as having a range of up to ten metres.
 In
Naruto
 chapter 611
,
Ino Yamanaka
 uses it from significantly further away.

In the anime, it is implied that the user can take over a person's mind without the user removing their consciousness from their body.

In the anime, Ino was unable to use this technique on
Sora
 when he was in a
version 1
 form, as Sora's consciousness was swallowed by the beast's demonic chakra.
 The manga later shows her using it successfully against a
version 2

Kinkaku
, who maintained his consciousness.

In
Naruto Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire
, Ino uses a different hand seal to perform this technique.

In
Rock Lee's Springtime of Youth Full Power Ninja Chronicles
, Ino uses a variation of the technique called "
Mind Reverse Body Technique
" (
心逆身の術
,
Shingyakushin no Jutsu
,
English TV:
 Mind-Body Reversal Jutsu), which switches the minds of two separate targets, instead of her own.

See Also

Living Corpse Reincarnation

Spirit Transformation Technique

White Snake Possession

Puppet Imitation Technique

References