This article is about the Konoha Shinden chapter. For the kunoichi, see
Mirai Sarutobi
.

"
Mirai Sarutobi!!
" (
猿飛ミライ!!
,
Sarutobi Mirai!!
) is chapter 1 of the
Konoha Shinden
 manga.

Summary

Mirai Sarutobi
, a
genin
, searches the forest near
Konohagakure
 for a missing cat. She finds the cat, only to realise that she's wandered off from her teammates and that she furthermore isn't sure how to get back to the village. Embarrassed about how this may reflect on her dream of being a great
ninja
 like her
father
 and
grandfather
, Mirai tries to get her bearings. She comes across a man discussing the role of ninja, proclaiming them to be a relic of the past. Mirai recognises him from the
Bingo Book
 as
Mezu
, a former Konoha-nin.

Mirai tries to remain concealed as she observes Mezu, but he notices her anyway. He dismisses her as a mere child and begins walking away, but Mirai calls out to him by name, accusing him of betraying the village to become an assassin. Mezu reprimands Mirai, as by revealing that she knows him he will be forced to kill her. Mezu is joined by his gang of followers and Mirai prepares for battle, casting
Demonic Illusion: Tree Binding Death
 against them. When this fails, she uses
Shadow Shuriken Technique
. Mezu blocks most of the shuriken, but one manages to scratch his face. Annoyed, Mezu grabs Mirai, intent on making her an example of how irrelevant ninja have become. Mirai vows that she and her fellow ninja will endure.

Mezu is stopped from killing Mirai by the
Shadow Imitation Shuriken Technique
. Mezu recognises its user as
Shikamaru Nara
, who apologises to Mirai for not arriving sooner. Mezu's men engage with Shikamaru, distracting him long enough to free Mezu and escape with him. Mirai insists that they must pursue, but Shikamaru says there's no need: as Mezu and his gang run off, they cross paths with
Kakashi Hatake
, the current
Hokage
, who happens to be on a walk through the area. Kakashi easily defeats them all after a brief fight. Mirai is frustrated by her performance against Mezu, believing she was powerless against him. Shikamaru doesn't deny this, but explains that by recognising her own shortcomings she has proven her qualifications to become a splendid ninja.

Shikamaru and Kakashi later discuss the incident. Kakashi doesn't give much thought to Mezu and his gang, instead remarking that he'd like to have some free time longer than a walk through the forest, perhaps even a vacation. He dismisses this as impossible given the obligations of being the Hokage. He does, however, agree with Shikamaru that Mirai will be a great ninja someday. Several years later, Mirai, no longer a genin, comes across the same cat. She notices the cat is being searched for by
another team
, but she can't help since she's running late for her new mission: to escort
Might Guy
 and Kakashi (now retired) to the
Land of Hot Water
.