"
Mirai's King
" (
ミライの玉
,
Mirai no Gyoku
) is chapter 15 of the
Konoha Shinden
 manga.

Summary

Ryūki
 and his followers are detained until ninja from
Yugakure
 can arrive to take them into custody.
Mirai
 asks how
Kakashi
 could have had the foresight to contact Yugakure before they'd even met Ryūki, prompting Kakashi to reveal that uncovering the
Jashin
 cult has been their true objective the whole time; it's also why
Kiba
,
Tenten
, and
Chōji
 have all been in the
Land of Hot Water
. Mirai is hurt that she wasn't told about any of this, but realises it was for the best when Kakashi points out that she would have done a poor job of staying undercover, as the mission required.

When
Tatsumi
 regains consciousness, she attempts to apologise for lying to Mirai and putting her in danger. Mirai interrupts her by thanking her, as it was Tatsumi's water bottle that saved her from Ryūki's
Body Controlling Manipulated Blood
. Furthermore, this experience has showed her what purpose all of her shinobi-training can serve: protecting her friends. Tatsumi also resolves to use this experience for the better, by looking to the future instead of dwelling on her mother's death.

A few days later, at an inn in the
Land of Fire
, en route back to
Konoha
, Kakashi speaks on the phone with
Naruto
. After Naruto tells him about the successful resolution of
his own mission
, Kakashi reports that Mirai has done well. He acknowledges that Naruto was right to be concerned about her, but that fundamentally she is in a good place. After the phone call ends, Kakashi also speaks about Mirai with
Guy
. Both regret that she had to encounter Ryūki, manipulated by his lies of meeting the dead, but Kakashi confides that even he might have been tempted if Ryūki had told him that Guy's injured leg could be healed. Guy assures him not to worry about his leg, as he still has his life and Kakashi's friendship.

Mirai interrupts Kakashi and Guy, chastising them for taking so long that they now won't be able to return to Konoha by the end of the day. Kakashi begins to apologise, prompting Mirai to muse that it was a good things she anticipated this and extended their reservation at the inn ahead of time, thus prolonging their mission/vacation by an extra day. Once they do finally get back to Konoha, Mirai starts receiving compliments about the successful capture of Ryūki. When people attribute her performance to being the daughter of
Asuma
, rather than be irked by the comparison like she used to, she instead happily agrees.