Itachi Uchiha and Kisame Hoshigaki, two missing-nin.



Missing-nin
 (
抜け忍
,
nukenin
,
English TV:
 Rogue Ninja,
literally meaning:
 runaway shinobi) are
ninja
 who abandon their village with no intention of returning. Missing-nin are criminals in effect, if not before their defection then certainly after abandoning their duties. Aside from whatever crimes they've committed during and after their departure, a shinobi may hold many secrets that would become detrimental to the villages they originated from should outsiders know of, whether it be confidential intelligence or bodily secrets (chakra type, herbs eaten, kekkei genkai, etc.). As such, missing-nin are listed in their village's
Bingo Book
 to be killed on-sight.

Kirigakure
's
hunter-nin
 are specifically assigned to eliminate these missing-nin. Although some missing-nin may continue wearing their village's
forehead protector
, they no longer swear allegiance to their village; members of
Akatsuki
 — most of them missing-nin — carve scratches across their forehead protectors to symbolise they have rejected their village.

Leaving the village does not necessarily automatically make one a missing-nin.
Tsunade
 withdraws from life as a ninja and departs from
Konoha
 following the
Second Shinobi World War
, but she is at no time considered a missing-nin by the village.
Jiraiya
 informs her, however, that if she aids
Orochimaru
 — an enemy of Konoha — that her status will change and he will be forced to kill her.
Rōshi
 left
Iwagakure
 to learn more and to better control of
Son Gokū
 that was sealed inside him, but despite taking such a potential war power from the village, he was not branded a missing-nin either.

Likewise, being branded a missing-nin does not guarantee their former village will seek them out as a criminal.
Itachi Uchiha
 becomes a missing-nin after the
Uchiha Clan Downfall
, but he does so under orders of Konoha's leadership; while most of Konoha's population does indeed consider Itachi a criminal and treats him as such, its leaders are privately aware that he remains loyal to Konoha. Similarly, when
Sasuke Uchiha
 defects from Konoha and becomes a missing-nin, the
Fifth Hokage
 decides not to pursue him as a criminal as a favour to
Naruto Uzumaki
.
Danzō
, when appointed the "Sixth Hokage Candidate", later withdraws this leniency and orders his execution, partly because of his inexcusable action of attacking
Kumogakure
.
 For his help during the
Fourth Shinobi World War
 and the good word of the
Sixth Hokage
, Sasuke is ultimately pardoned for his crimes.

After the Fourth Shinobi World War, there are an increase of Missing-nin activities across the continent due to shinobi leaving their villages since they viewed their way of life as being threatened or other reasons. In this era, they have also become far more ruthless, even willing to kill the person who hired them if there is a chance for a greater payout.

Trivia

Tō no Sho
 labels both
Gantetsu
 and
Chōseki
 as
Fallen Ninja
 (
忍者崩れ
,
Ninja Kuzure
). Whether this is meant to be missing-nin or not is unknown, as both have left their profession as shinobi to seek a more luxurious life in
Tanzaku Quarters
 instead of committing crimes.

See Also

List of missing-nin

Mercenary Ninja

References