In the organised society of the villages, ninja are given
missions
 (
任務
,
ninmu
) depending on their rank. The missions are categorised in five ranks, based on the mission's possible danger or level of importance.

Perception on Missions

Depending on the importance and nature of the mission, as well as the regards of the
village head
, failure could result in variable consequences. While
Shikamaru Nara
 failed to
retrieve

Sasuke Uchiha
, the
Fifth Hokage
 gave him words of comfort and support. On the other hand, when
Sakumo Hatake
 botched a very important mission by choosing to rescue comrades over completing it, he was heavily dishonoured throughout
his village
 and
country
, which eventually drove him to commit suicide. In
Takigakure
, failure of a mission brings very harsh consequences, as
Kakuzu
's failure to assassinate
Hashirama Senju
 led to an unfair imprisonment despite the insurmountable danger involved, a treatment that led to his revolt. As such, certain villages put missions to a higher priority than others, as
Sunagakure
 would choose accomplishing missions over the lives of their comrades,
Iwagakure
 would follow orders even if it means death and Konohagakure's
Shinobi Rules
 #4 states that "A shinobi must always put the mission first".

Because of the importance of missions, certain shinobi would take even the most drastic (sometimes considered illegal) actions to ensure its completion, even if it means sacrificing comrades, as
Kisame Hoshigaki
 and
Mizuki
 did. This may lead to certain controversies to the shinobi with their associated villages, depending on the situation. Kisame was simply following his
superior's
 ideology and orders and was complimented even by the
Fourth Mizukage
 for his willingness to make such sacrifices for
Kirigakure
. Mizuki, on the other hand, killed a slightly injured comrade simply to eliminate any potential hindrances, and falsified the reason of death, which led him to be ostracised based on the suspicious circumstances of this transgression.

If the client who hires ninjas for a mission gives false information on details, such as downplaying the dangers involved (which in turn becomes a mission that exceeds the expectations of its corresponding rank), the ninja in question will no longer be obligated to complete the mission (though they may continue if they choose).

Mercenary Ninjas
 accept missions from clients just as much as village-bound ninjas. However, these missions are considered more illegal, as they can involve assassination of people that are normally not meant to be targeted (such as
Kisame Hoshigaki
 killing a
daimyō
), or creating acts of terrorism (such as
Deidara
 becoming an insurgent bomber for anyone who would hire him). These missions are not ranked as they are not handed out by an official system. Clients may hire mercenaries instead of legal ninjas for shady businesses (such as
Gatō
) or cheaper prices (as
Akatsuki
 offered). Due to mercenaries not being bound to the legal shinobi systems, they are riskier to hire for missions as they may end up betraying their clients, as Zabuza intended to kill Gatō once he gets paid, or
Hidari
 and
Ashimaru
 killing
Iori
 in order to get the
Green Banks
 deed they were supposed to help him take for themselves. Being renegades whom the legal system would not protect makes these mercenaries just as vulnerable, as Gatō plotted to eliminate a weakened Zabuza instead of paying him.

The prices of missions can affect the client's decision on who to employ and how.
Tazuna
 and
Haruna
 downplayed their missions' details and dangers due to their inability to afford higher prices. Gatō hired
Zabuza Momochi
's group of renegades, who charge high prices, but would betray them with a large mob of less expensive mercenaries to prevent paying these excessive fees. Akatsuki intended to cause economic declines in shinobi countries by charging missions at much lower prices that villages cannot afford to. Even countries would hire services from foreign forces if it means saving a budget, as the
Wind Daimyō
 outsourced many missions to Konohagakure over his own country's Sunagakure, and
Ōnoki
 hiring Akatsuki many times for missions.

It is against the law for shinobi to be stealing during missions, as
Hakubi Shin
 was eventually exiled from Konoha for committing such crimes.

Mission Ranks

D-rank
 - assigned to
genin
 fresh from the
Academy
. They pose almost no risk to the ninja's life and usually consist of odd jobs like farming and babysitting work. The fee for a D-rank mission is between 5,000 and 50,000
ryō
.

C-rank
 - assigned to more experienced genin or
chūnin
. They are missions with little to no chance of combat against other ninja.
 Examples are guarding people against bandits or highwaymen, background investigations, eliminating or capturing bandits or thieves, and capturing or suppressing wild animals. The fee for a C-rank mission is between 30,000 and 100,000 ryō.

B-rank
 - assigned to experienced chūnin. They are missions anticipated to involve combat with other ninja. Examples are guarding people, espionage, or killing other ninja. The fee for a B-rank mission is between 80,000 and 200,000 ryō.

A-rank
 - assigned to
jōnin
, concerning, among other things, village-or state-level matters and trends. Examples are guarding VIPs or suppressing ninja forces. The fee for an A-rank mission is between 150,000 and 1,000,000 ryō.

S-rank
 - assigned to experienced jōnin and concern state-level confidential matters. Examples are assassinating VIPs, and transporting highly classified documents. The fee for an S-rank mission is at minimum 1,000,000 ryō.

Trivia

It's tradition in
Konohagakure
 that a shinobi's first mission is directly received from the
Hokage
.

References