Mito Uzumaki
 (
うずまきミト
,
Uzumaki Mito
) was a
kunoichi
 who originated from
Uzushiogakure
's
Uzumaki clan
. After migrating to
Konohagakure
, she married
Hashirama Senju
, the village's First
Hokage
, and later became the first
jinchūriki
 of the
Nine-Tails
 following the events at the
Valley of the End
.

Background






Mito as Kurama's first jinchūriki.



The Uzumaki and Senju clans — being distant relatives — have always had close ties. Mito ended up marrying
Hashirama Senju
, who would help found
Konohagakure
 and became the village's First
Hokage
.

After Hashirama's victory against
Madara Uchiha
 at the
Valley of the End
 and obtaining
Kurama
 from him, Mito sealed the
tailed beast
 within herself, becoming its first jinchūriki. Despite the seal's strength, it almost broke when she was going through childbirth.






An elderly Mito comforting her successor, Kushina.



Towards the final years of her life, it was decided that a new host for Kurama would have to be found.
Kushina Uzumaki
, one of Mito's clansmen, was then selected for the role due to her special
chakra
. Terrified by the idea of having been taken from her home to become a jinchūriki, Mito comforted Kushina, and told her that in order to counter the fox's hatred, she needed to fill herself with love.
 She elaborated on the topic by comparing their situation with their clan symbol and their residence, that while a spiral is two-dimensional, staying in one place, they need to be a three-dimensional helix, capable of rising by filling themselves with love.
 Some time after this, the beast was presumably extracted from within Mito and sealed into Kushina, resulting in Mito's death.

Personality

Mito seemed to be a very calm and composed individual with a dignified air about her. She also had a strong sense of duty to her husband and the village as seen when she turned herself into a jinchūriki by sealing Kurama into herself in order to gain power for her husband.
 During the time when Kushina discovered that she was to be made a jinchūriki, Mito comforted her, and told her about how to cope with being a jinchūriki,
 sharing how she usually climbed the stairs of her residence in order to see her husband's face on the Hokage Rock. Mito was also described as gentle and reassuring.

Appearance






An elderly Mito.



Mito had long, bright-red hair and large, black pupilless eyes. She wore an elaborate, high-collared kimono with the
Uzushiogakure
 symbol on the back of the obi which was tied around her waist. Her hair was arranged in buns with
hair pins
 in them and three clips in the front. She also wore a dark shade of red lipstick and had a rhombus marking reminiscent of the
Strength of a Hundred Seal
 on her forehead. She also wore tags with kanji written on them in her hair decals. In her old age, her hair had grown much longer some of which she allowed to hang into her back (in the anime her hair was depicted as maroon in her old age).
 She, however, maintained the two buns in her hair and wore a simple loose fitting kimono held closed by a simple dark-coloured obi.

Abilities

Not much is known about her fighting skills, but Kushina hailed her as a powerful kunoichi. She was exceptional at
fūinjutsu
, able to seal the entirety of
Kurama
 within herself. Even for an Uzumaki, she also had an especially powerful and unique type of chakra, making her well-suited to suppressing the Nine-Tails.
 After becoming a jinchūriki, she gained access to even greater reserves of extraordinarily strong chakra.

Being a member of the Uzumaki clan, Mito had the potential to live an exceptionally long life. This was seen in part from her having lived her adult life through the reign of the first three Hokage and likewise retain noticeable colouring in her hair even in her advanced years. While never gaining full control over Kurama itself, Mito was able to access Kurama's ability to
sense negative emotions
.

Legacy

Mito made great contributions in the way of protecting Konohagakure after becoming the beast's jinchūriki. She was also the one who realised that in order to counter Kurama's ability to overwhelm his jinchūriki with negative emotions, thus taking control of them, love was needed. This was information she passed on to Kushina Uzumaki, which in part helped the young woman to be able to subdue the beast within her and later helped
Naruto Uzumaki
 to subjugate the beast.

Trivia

Mito's name may be taken from the name of the capital of one of the
prefectures in Japan
.

Quotes

(To
Kushina
)
"We came here to be the vessels of the Nine-Tails… But before that, we must find love and fill the vessel with it."
 (
私達は九尾の器としてここへ来た…でもまず先にその器に愛を見つけて入れなさい
,
Watashi-tachi wa Kyūbi no utsuwa toshite koko e kita… Demo mazu saki ni sono utsuwa ni ai o mitsukete irenasai.
)

(To
Kurama
)
"If you use your power, only hatred will come from it. Stay tranquil deep inside me.
"

References