"
Momoshiki and Kinshiki!!
" (
モモシキとキンシキ!!
,
Momoshiki to Kinshiki!!
) is chapter 5 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 manga.

Synopsis

Naruto
 disqualifies
Boruto
 from the
Chūnin Exams
 because of his use of the
Kote
. Naruto says they'll have a talk later, causing Boruto to lash out at him, asking if he'll have the time, and saying that if he had actually taught him, things would not have come to this point.
Katasuke
 jumps in and tries to advertise the Kote.
Kinshiki
 lands on the arena, and punches the floor, severely damaging the structure.
Temari
,
Sakura
 and
Gaara
 begin protecting the audience. Gaara tells
Shinki
 not to try fighting the opponent.
Kankurō
 pulls people away from falling debris with his chakra threads. While Naruto instructs Boruto to leave,
Momoshiki
 drops in and kicks him away.

Sasuke
 swoops in to save
Sarada
, while
Mitsuki
 protects a child. Sasuke and Kinshiki exchange insults. Momoshiki pays no attention to Boruto, who tries attacking him with a
Fire Release
 from his Kote. Momoshiki absorbs it, and Boruto tries attacking him with more jutsu from his Kote, all of which are also absorbed. Momoshiki moves in to attack Boruto, but Naruto interferes, taking him away. From afar,
Shikamaru
 paralyses Momoshiki and Kinshiki with his
Shadow Imitation Technique
. Momoshiki absorbs it as well. Sasuke informs Naruto who they are, and that the contents of
Kaguya
's scroll was a warning about them, and their intention of acquiring the chakra fruit. Naruto admonishes them from attacking innocent people when he's the one they want. Momoshiki berates them as lesser beings, and ingests chakra pills, and creates a massive attack with the several jutsu he's absorbed. Feeling responsible for having empowered Momoshiki, Boruto creates a shadow clone to protect Sarada. Momoshiki throws an attack their way, but Naruto blocks it by manifesting
Kurama
's head out of chakra, as well as creating shadow clones to protect those still in the stadium. Sasuke lends Naruto his chakra. Momoshiki throws his full attack at the stadium. Naruto asks Sasuke to protect the children. Naruto prepares to go full out on Momoshiki.

Trivia

Noticeably, when Naruto enters his
Six Paths Sage Mode
, his right palm had the
Six Paths Yang Power
 mark. This is seemingly a drawing error as
Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki
 retrieved this mark from Naruto after the
second sealing
 of
Kaguya Ōtsutsuki
. As such, it was removed in the tankōbon version.

In
Boruto: Naruto the Movie
, Momoshiki and Kinshiki introduced themselves, while in the chapter, it was Sasuke who revealed their names based on the information from the scroll.