Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki
 (
大筒木モモシキ
,
Ōtsutsuki Momoshiki
) was a member of the
Ōtsutsuki Clan
's main family, sent to investigate the whereabouts of
Kaguya
 and her
God Tree
. He then attempted to cultivate a new one out of the
chakra
 of the
Nine-Tails
 sealed within the
Seventh Hokage
. In the process of being killed by
Boruto Uzumaki
, Momoshiki placed a
Kāma
 on him, allowing his spirit to remain intact through the mark.

Personality






Momoshiki's sadistic pleasure for destruction.



Momoshiki is typically calm, collected, and calculating. However, he has been prone to demonstrate sadistic tendencies, which was shown during his and
Kinshiki
's attack on
Konohagakure
, where he laughed after seeing distressed citizens while firing his elemental attacks. Momoshiki also has a severe superiority complex and thought very lowly of people other than himself, calling humans "lowly beings". Likewise, he is also even unsociable amongst his fellow clansmen such as
Isshiki
,
 Urashiki, and even his own foster father Kinshiki. He is also like this towards the members of
Kara
, but will temporarily team up with them if it helps him achieve his goals. Despite his callous attitude, he is staunchly committed to the Ōtsutsuki Will and his clan's goal of attaining godhood; while he laments Naruto's inability to pass along his massive
chakra
 to his son in his future, he absorbs Kinshiki's without a second thought as per his wish. As with Isshiki, Momoshiki is determined to harvest a chakra fruit at all cost, as he decided to use
Kawaki
 as a sacrifice for the
Ten-Tails
 to bloom into a God Tree, even though this would result in the fruit's decreased quality, to the point that he would absorb chakra to prevent Kawaki from committing suicide even if risking Boruto regaining control of his body.

Momoshiki is also uninterested in hard-work, preferring to absorb and use the
techniques
 of others instead of relying on his own personal strength. Due to this, he has very limited skill in
taijutsu
, becoming one of his main crippling weaknesses. Any effort on his part disgusted Momoshiki, and grows visibly annoyed at anything not going smoothly for him, as he was angered by his clothes being ripped by Boruto. As such, he is very arrogant and reckless in battle, never implementing any attempts with strategy or attempting to conserve
chakra
, but simply flaunting his self-perceived superior power in the vain belief that his powers alone secure him victories. He always convinced himself he can simply replenish his chakra with what he gains from his
Chakra Fruit
 and
pills
, or by whatever samples he obtained by
absorbing others' attacks
. Despite his lazy nature, Momoshiki is shown to be a talented schemer, able to adapt to the situation to suit his need. He is also rather innovative, able to create variations of techniques acquired from others. He is also well-versed in the Ōtsutsuki's full recorded history.

Fitting of his lazy personality, he is also rather cowardly when faced with an actual challenge, as he is occasionally seen becoming visibly nervous when his opponents are powerful enough to threaten him and even more exploit his weakness.
Sasuke Uchiha
 and
Naruto Uzumaki
 both agreed Momoshiki's personality is a mirror image of Sasuke's when he was bent on killing
Itachi Uchiha
.
 However, upon seeing Momoshiki coldheartedly consume his own
foster father
 and brutalise his fellow Kage, Naruto remarked that Momoshiki wasn't a man at all, or Sasuke's mirror image, but a simple monster with no redeeming qualities.
 He is also a schemer, constantly looking for the right opportunity to turn things to his advantage, meticulously poking at one's insecurities in hopes of making them cave to his will.

Although believing himself to be superior to everybody, Momoshiki is not completely unable to accept defeat, as after death, his spirit lingered enough to leave Boruto a foreshadow of his future, showing no outward anger nor hatred otherwise. He even continually makes the effort to talk to him and jokingly gets upset by Boruto not enjoying his company. Additionally, when controlling Boruto, he doesn't target any of Boruto's friends or even Naruto, who killed him, despite having easy chances to do so. He did not try to hurt them until they actually tried to stop him during his fight with Kawaki. Momoshiki will do anything to keep his vessel alive. He seems unfazed when he loses the ability to resurrect into Boruto, instead laughing at Boruto with the thought that the boy will lose everything. When Kawaki took Boruto's place in the world's collective memory, Momoshiki became more forthcoming with information to assist his vessel's survival, and grew aggravated when Boruto refused to give into despair, denying him the ability to take over his body.

Having failed to reincarnate or even take over Boruto's body, Momoshiki became forlorn, wishing for Boruto's death so that his own soul may be freed from being bound to the mortal world. However, upon Boruto offering a deal, Momoshiki became intrigued at the chance to finally take over Boruto's body.

Appearance

Momoshiki's full appearance.
Momoshiki's movie appearance after absorbing Kinshiki.
Momoshiki's manga/anime appearance after absorbing Kinshiki.
Momoshiki's appearance when possessing Boruto's body.
Momoshiki's spirit.
1/5

Momoshiki had pale skin, and pale-blue hair which he kept in a long ponytail. His hair was parted down the middle in a zig-zag pattern, and his head was adorned with a pair of flat, curved horns which resembled bulls horns. He had delicate facial features and his eyebrows were cut very short as a symbol of nobility. He dressed in traditional nobleman's attire consisting of a white
kariginu
 hunting robe, baggy pants, a pair of
tengu-geta
, and a single black glove on his left hand, with a hole cut into the palm for his
Rinnegan
, which was red in colour (purple in
some

depictions
). He also wore a transparent
hagoromo
 veil over his head. In the manga the lining of his robes and his shin guards are maroon, while in the anime they are gold and grey.

Originally, in
Boruto: Naruto the Movie
, after absorbing
Kinshiki
, Momoshiki's appearance took a drastic change including; black sclerae, white irides, dark-red skin, a pointy chin, fangs, claws on his hands and feet which were exposed, white hair, ponytail enlarged and became much spikier, larger, sharpened bull horns, white markings under his eyes and a massive increase in size. His
Rinnegan
 on his palms turned purple and he awakened a third one on his forehead. In the movie's novelisation, he doesn't awaken a third eye, but upon devouring the last of the pills he created from Kinshiki his skin turns from red to black, giving him the appearance of a black demon.

However, in the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 manga and its anime adaptation, Momoshiki's appearance is radically different upon absorbing Kinshiki. His body becomes lithe and covered with radiating black markings that resemble sunburst patterns, his horns greatly enlarge and curve back, he grows short claws on his fingers and toes, his canines extend and resemble fangs, and all his
dōjutsu
 turn golden, including a third Rinnegan on his forehead.

As a spirit, he appears barefooted with his hair flowing freely, and his horns are grey and splintered. After Boruto snaps his own horn to break Momoshiki's control over him, Momoshiki's right horn is broken as well, appearing shorter than the left.

Abilities

Because of the
lengths
 that Kaguya went to prepare against Momoshiki and Kinshiki (and
Urashiki
 in the anime), Sasuke speculated that they were a threat greater than her, confirmed in scrolls found in one of Kaguya's dimensions.
 Momoshiki also claims that he could have defeated Kaguya himself.
 He demonstrated the power to effortlessly destroy a
world
 and its entire population on at least one occasion, though he deemed the level of their civilisation as low.
 He was capable of holding his own against multiple
Kage
-level opponents simultaneously, as well as defeating a
perfect

jinchūriki
. After absorbing Kinshiki, he was able to defeat four Kage at the same time with extreme ease and he could hold his own against Naruto and Sasuke, who were considered the two strongest shinobi in history.
 After making
Boruto
 his
vessel
, Momoshiki seemingly grew stronger, as he could easily overpower two
Kara
 Inner members in both
Boro
 and
Code
,
 then could later contend with
Kawaki
, who inherited
Isshiki
’s abilities.

Chakra and Physical Prowess






Momoshiki facing both Naruto and Sasuke single-handedly.



Momoshiki showed noticeable proficiency in taijutsu. He was fast and strong enough to be able to surprise and effortlessly kick Naruto through a wall and clear out of the
Chūnin Exams
 arena with a single kick. He was also skilled enough with his black staff to hold his own against both
Darui
 and Sasuke, although he was still at a disadvantage.

Upon
consuming
 Kinshiki, Momoshiki's physical prowess skyrocketed. He was able to effortlessly defeat
Gaara
, Darui,
Chōjūrō
, and
Kurotsuchi
 in a single blow each before the planet's God Tree finished falling and was able to quickly out-manoeuvre Naruto in hand-to-hand combat. In the anime, he displayed taijutsu like that of the
Gentle Fist
 but much more brutal, targeting Naruto's tenketsu and internal organs, and his skill with his weapons also greatly increased. Both using his bare hands and weapons, he was able to contend against Naruto in his
Six Paths Sage Mode
 and Sasuke using both his Eternal
Mangekyō Sharingan
 and Rinnegan as well as wielding his sword to their full effect. Even being trapped in a
Chibaku Tensei
 didn't damage him, and he was able to bore his way through it.

As an Ōtsutsuki, Momoshiki had the ability to fly and survive in space, and his chakra was extremely powerful. His reserves were considerable, as he was able to fight for a significant amount of time against multiple Kage-level opponents. After absorbing Kinshiki, Momoshiki's chakra became strong enough to create shock waves capable of cutting a
God Tree
 in half.

Momoshiki's spirit is remarkably powerful, as it was able to continue interacting with the living world for a period of time even after dying, giving him the opportunity to make Boruto into his vessel. As a spirit he can on occasion make contact with Boruto, causing Boruto's perception of time to halt while they interact. Boruto later demonstrated the ability to make contact with Momoshiki's spirit via a process similar to
Tailed Beast Telepathy
, seemingly entering a mental plain that resembled the site of Momoshiki's demise.

Dōjutsu

Byakugan






Momoshiki's Byakugan.



Momoshiki wielded the
Byakugan
 in both eyes, granting him telescopic vision, x-ray vision, a near 360° field of visual perception,(with the presumed exception of a small blind spot at the upper thoracic vertebrae), and the ability to see the
chakra pathway system
 and its
tenketsu
. Using it, he could see
Kurama
's chakra that was sealed within Naruto. Momoshiki has a limited ability to see fragmented visions of the future surrounding himself,
 including the destiny of those around him, though he was unable to foresee his own fate.

Rinnegan






Momoshiki using his Rinnegan to absorb ninjutsu.



Uniquely, Momoshiki wielded a pair of Rinnegan in the palms of his hands, which were both initially red in colour instead of light purple. With his right one, he could use to absorb any chakra-based technique he came in contact with, and utilise afterwards unleash the said technique with
augmented
 power and scale through his left, which he proclaimed to be capable of making a limitless number of. With his right Rinnegan, he could turn a target into
pills
, which when eaten, grants him extended youth along with their chakra and technique arsenal. It would also cause a metamorphosis to his being, increasing his size and muscular tissue. Noticeably, after transforming from his absorption of Kinshiki, the Rinnegan in Momoshiki's palms turned yellow and he gained an additional yellow Rinnegan on his forehead (purple in
Boruto: Naruto the Movie
). He could create
black receivers
 as well, which he used to either fight with, or fire at an individual to impale and restrain them.

Ninjutsu






Momoshiki manipulating his hair via his chakra.



In the anime, after absorbing Kinshiki, Momoshiki could create
glowing red weapons
. He had some knowledge in
fūinjutsu
, evident from his attempts to extract Kurama from Naruto's body. Momoshiki could also
stimulate his hair
, granting him the ability to freely manipulate it. At the cost of much chakra, Momoshiki could use
space–time ninjutsu
 to transport himself between dimensions.
 With his Rinnegan, he was able to use a technique similar to the
Rasengan
 dubbed the
Deep Crimson Spiral
, which was able to temporarily rival
Naruto
 and
Boruto
's
Lightning Release
-enhanced
Parent and Child Rasengan
 in terms of power. After becoming Boruto's host, Momoshiki became able to use all of Boruto's
ninjutsu
, such as the
Shadow Clone Technique
. He can utilise the Rasengan and increase its size to further augment its power; by using the
Ultra-Big Ball Rasengan
, Momoshiki was able to easily kill and destroy
Boro
, even when his Shinobi-Ware went out of control. Momoshiki also developed a long-range variation of the Rasengan which he named the
Spiralling Bullet
.

Nature Transformation






Momoshiki manipulating all five nature transformations.



With his Rinnegan, Momoshiki could use all five elemental
nature transformations
 simultaneously. He could create enormous elemental creatures, such as a
fire pheasant
,
dogs
, and a
golem
, which was powerful enough to battle a
Susanoo
-
clad
 Kurama. Momoshiki's
Fire Release
 was strong enough to overpower Sasuke's Susanoo and severely burn him. He can unleash a burst of wind able to repel many of Sasuke's
Lightning Flash
 shuriken. Momoshiki could also use elemental techniques in the form of an absolute zero degree blizzard and meteorites.
 After Boruto became Momoshiki's vessel, Momoshiki also became able to infuse
Lightning Release
 chakra into the Rasengan to use the
Vanishing Rasengan
.

Kāma






Momoshiki manifesting through Boruto's Kāma.



Upon being killed by Boruto, Momoshiki chose to turn the boy into a vessel by implanting him with his Kāma.
 This grants Boruto access to various mysterious powers, and as the mark develops, also allows Momoshiki to manifest and take complete control of his body for short bursts, during which he can act freely.
 In time, it is possible that the Kāma will continue to progress and make Boruto into a complete vessel, causing him to awaken as a "perfect Ōtsutsuki".
 Over time, Momoshiki's genetic profile will completely overwrite Boruto's, at which point the Kāma will disappear and Momoshiki will resurrect, taking over Boruto's body and erasing his personality.
 Having the progress of the takeover accelerated due to Boruto's contact with Kawaki, who bore Isshiki's Kāma, Momoshiki is able to manifest when Boruto is weakened sufficiently. He is also revealed to retain access to Boruto's knowledge and skills. While unable to control the progress of the Kāma for his own resurrection, he can alter the data to reconstitute his vessel to their full health, saving his soul but preventing his resurrection.

Intelligence

Momoshiki seems to be gifted with a great intellect, having a great knowledge of his clan's history, its members and their skills, even claiming to have knowledge of all the
shinjutsu
 that exist. He has also shown to be incredibly perceptive and analytical, having been able to determine the true source of
Ada
's entrancing ability less than a day after meeting her. Already in battle, Momoshiki has shown to be a strategic calculator and capable of using deceptive tactics, such as attacking by surprise opponents who let their guard down. As a side effect of Momoshiki sacrificing his remaining Karma to resuscitate Boruto, their thoughts began to occasionally overlap.

New Era

Academy Entrance Arc

Main article:
Academy Entrance Arc






Momoshiki consuming a chakra fruit.



In the anime, while eating chakra fruit harvested from a God Tree on an
unidentified planet
 he destroyed, Momoshiki was approached by Kinshiki, who had observed substantial tears in Kaguya's
world
, with its space curvature exceeding 16. After Kinshiki noted that she violated their clan's laws by failing to report the abnormal space curvature, Momoshiki wondered whether she had betrayed the clan, or had somehow been overthrown and destroyed by the "inferior lifeforms" inhabiting her world. Finding that possibility interesting, Momoshiki ordered Kinshiki to prepare to depart, hoping that Kaguya's world would have an abundance of chakra worthy of being consumed.

Versus Momoshiki Arc

Main articles:
Boruto: Naruto the Movie
 and
Versus Momoshiki Arc






Momoshiki and Kinshiki investigating Kaguya.



While seeking out Kaguya's whereabouts at her former
castle
 in the anime, Momoshiki and Kinshiki encountered Sasuke as he was seeking information on a threat greater than Kaguya. In a blizzard, Kinshiki fought against Sasuke, while Momoshiki watched from afar and was enticed by the power of Sasuke's Rinnegan. After Sasuke escapes, Momoshiki and Kinshiki continued investigating at another of her
dimensions
 before encountering
Urashiki Ōtsutsuki
, whom briefed the two about her former territory: the planet
Earth
 and the fact the chakra of its God Tree was spread amongst humanity, including the
Tailed Beasts
. Momoshiki and Kinshiki eventually made their way to the real world and began their quest to gather the
chakra
. They first encountered
Killer B
, and Momoshiki easily manages to defeat him by absorbing
his attack
 and using it against him. He then absorbs
Gyūki
's chakra from within Killer B and leaves him unconscious, despite the attack, Killer B survives. Unsatisfied with their chakra consumption, they then focused their attention on their next objective: capturing the Nine-Tails by kidnapping its current jinchūriki, Naruto.






Momoshiki attacking Konoha during the Chūnin Exams.



Momoshiki and Kinshiki appeared in Konoha during the Chūnin Exams and created massive chaos. Momoshiki kicked Naruto out of the arena and remained on the side while Kinshiki destroyed most of the arena and tried to attack Sasuke and his
daughter
. Momoshiki calmly walked past a frightened Boruto, who tried to use his Kote to attack him but all of his attacks were absorbed through Momoshiki's Rinnegan. Sasuke related to Naruto their purpose based on what was deciphered from Kaguya's scroll and they are a stronger threat than Kaguya. When asked by Naruto what they wanted, Momoshiki explains he and Kinshiki want to gather Kaguya's scattered chakra into a new Chakra fruit and complete what Kaguya failed to do by cultivating it into a new '
cinnabar panacea
', which he says will grant them eternal youth and supernatural powers. Because of Kurama's powerful chakra, they desired to take Naruto and extract the beast's chakra so they could use it for their own purposes. Momoshiki and Kinshiki attacked Naruto, Sasuke, and their children, leading Naruto and Sasuke to combine Kurama and
Susanoo
 to shield themselves. All the while, Momoshiki laughed hysterically at their efforts. To end the battle, Momoshiki created a giant black ball that was amplified by the powers he stole from Boruto and launched it upon them. Ultimately, Naruto allowed himself to be captured by Momoshiki and Kinshiki while Sasuke protected Boruto and Sarada.






Momoshiki absorbing Kurama's chakra from Naruto.



Momoshiki and Kinshiki took Naruto to
another dimension
 and bound him to begin the ritual of extracting Kurama's chakra from inside him. Upon absorbing half of Kurama's chakra over a long period of time, Sasuke, Boruto, and the four other Kage
arrived
 to rescue Naruto. Momoshiki fought Sasuke while the other Kage fought against Kinshiki and was defeated with ease. Wanting to finish everyone off once and for all, Momoshiki turned Kinshiki into a chakra fruit and devoured him, which increased his strength and his body underwent a drastic change. In the novelisation he instead transforms Kinshiki into a number of chakra pills, consuming them throughout the battle to increase his strength and further transform. Naruto and Sasuke fought against him and almost had the advantage until Momoshiki briefly imprisons Naruto in boulders and severally
burns
 Sasuke. However, Momoshiki was severely weakened from the
combined efforts
 of the pair.






Momoshiki battles Sasuke.



When
Katasuke
 used his Kote in an attempt to kill him for good, his attacks were absorbed by Momoshiki, restoring his strength. He captured the other Kage with the Shadow Paralysis Technique and was about to kill the other Kage, except for Naruto. With no other options, Sasuke decided to have Boruto use
Rasengan
 to put an end to the threat. Boruto hit Momoshiki with his
small Rasengan
 and freed his father and the other Kage. Enraged at Boruto for damaging his garments, Momoshiki absorbed more chakra pills and increased his strength. Naruto then lent Boruto his chakra to help his son create a
Parent and Child Rasengan
 while Sasuke distracted Momoshiki long enough for Boruto to launch his attack on Momoshiki. First, Boruto ambushed Momoshiki with a shadow clone to take out his Rinnegan and then attacked him with his Rasengan, which collided with Momoshiki's own Rasengan look-alike, destroying him for good.






Momoshiki curses Boruto after being defeated.



Momoshiki's spirit stayed intact for a while, noticing that Boruto could feel his presence thanks to his blood of the Byakugan users. He approached Boruto and told him that despite his inability to foresee his own fate, he could see Boruto's fate clearly. Momoshiki warned him that someday his blue eyes would take everything from him and that he's no longer an ordinary human after defeating a god. He also left a
mark
 on Boruto's right palm and added that he should continue to follow his own path before disappearing.

Kawaki Arc

Main article:
Kawaki Arc






Momoshiki manifests through Boruto.



While Team 7 and Kawaki fought Boro, the Kara member repeatedly struck Boruto, beating the boy into unconsciousness and allowing Momoshiki to manifest through his Kāma. Taking complete control of Boruto's body, Momoshiki avoided Boro's attack by flying into the air. Taunting Boro, Momoshiki proceeded to effortlessly overwhelm him with taijutsu before realising that Boruto's body was nearly out of chakra. After absorbing chakra from a nearby unconscious Naruto, Momoshiki recalled his signature ninjutsu and unleashed a massive Rasengan, obliterating Boro. With the threat gone, Momoshiki remarked that it was not yet time for Boruto to lose everything and his persona subsided as the Kāma regressed. Upon regaining consciousness, Boruto was unable to clearly recall what had happened.

After Kara's head researcher, Amado, defected to Konohagakure and explained the organisation's plans, the mechanisms of Kāma, and his own intention to betray and kill its leader, Isshiki Ōtsutsuki, and his vessel, Jigen, Boruto realised that his body had been taken over by Momoshiki. Describing the incident as like an out-of-body experience, Boruto confided in Sasuke that he feared losing control again and bringing ruin to the village. With Boruto resolving that he would rather die than hurt his comrades, Sasuke assured him that, as his master, he would do whatever it takes to prevent Momoshiki from taking control of him, even if it meant killing him.

During the ensuing battle against Isshiki, Isshiki revealed that Boruto's Kāma was nearly complete and that, as Momoshiki's vessel, he would make a suitable sacrifice to transform Kara's
Ten Tails
 into a God Tree, then incapacitated the boy by breaking his arm and crushing his back. Boruto was quickly rescued by Naruto and Sasuke, but soon fell unconscious. As the battle progressed, Naruto and Sasuke were pushed to their limits and Isshiki managed to summon Kawaki to their location in order to implant him with a new Kāma before his imminent death. At that moment, Momoshiki manifested again.






Momoshiki destroys Sasuke's Rinnegan.



Momoshiki chose to remain unseen while Kawaki used a
shadow clone
 to deny Isshiki the possibility of reincarnation through Kāma as his body crumbled to dust. With Isshiki truly dead and Naruto and Sasuke seriously injured, Momoshiki launched a sudden surprise attack, plunging Boruto's kunai into Sasuke's left eye and destroying his Rinnegan before anyone could react. He then crouched in a battle stance and declared that he never thought they would be able to defeat Isshiki and that they were now the only obstacles left in his way. Momoshiki was glad to have neutralised Sasuke's space-time ninjutsu, and began fighting him and Kawaki.

He noticed that Kawaki's Kāma extraction had progressed significantly, making him a viable sacrifice for the cultivation of a God Tree, which he intended to do. Sasuke noticed that Momoshiki avoided absorbing any jutsu during the fight, and deduced that if Boruto's chakra were to be replenished, his personality would resurface. Momoshiki used Boruto's
Vanishing Rasengan
 to incapacitate Sasuke, and made his way to Kawaki. Kawaki attempted to self-immolate, forcing Momoshiki to absorb the fire, which was enough for Boruto's personality to resurface, break off Momoshiki's horn, and regain control.

Code's Assault Arc

Main article:
Code's Assault Arc






Momoshiki facing Kawaki.



When Boruto fought Code, he was initially able to use the Kāma's power without being taken over by Momoshiki. However, it did not last, as Momoshiki was able manifest himself again. He decided to kill Code and acquire his Ten-Tails. Code attempted to use Kawaki as a hostage, as Momoshiki also needed him as a sacrifice, but Momoshiki separated the two with his Spiralling Bullet. Kawaki tried to fight him, but had to be rescued by Naruto's and Shikamaru's arrival. Code held Shikamaru hostage, so Momoshiki decided to help him kill Naruto, who was also a problem for him. He attacked Naruto with an
Ultra-Big Ball Rasengan
, and was surprised to see Kawaki absorb it with a Kāma. Deducing it to be Amado's doing, he mocked Kawaki for still being used by others. Kawaki quickly adapted to Isshiki's jutsu, and began pressuring Momoshiki, intent on killing him. Naruto interfered to protect Boruto, but Kawaki was adamant that Momoshiki was too dangerous. Boruto's personality resurfaced, and was able to hold back Momoshiki's long enough to allow Kawaki to strike him through the chest.






Momoshiki reminds Boruto of his prophecy.



With no other vessel, and Boruto's Kāma not fully programmed to resurrect him, to save his soul, Momoshiki rewrote the 18% still compressed data of his Kāma with Boruto's data. This allowed the Kāma to resurrect Boruto's body at the cost of his own resurrection. After Boruto woke up, Momoshiki manifested himself in a vision, and explained the situation. Boruto considered the prevention of Momoshiki's resurrection a victory, but Momoshiki pointed out that he was now a complete Ōtsutsuki that Code could sacrifice for the Ten-Tails. Boruto asked if his death was what Momoshiki warned him about in his first vision, and he answered this was unrelated, though his original warning would soon come to pass.

Omnipotence Arc

Main article:
Omnipotence Arc

Momoshiki manifested himself in a vision again when Boruto was on his way to his first mission in a long time. He derided Boruto for promising his mother he would return, and teased him that in the end, he was truly meant to be a vessel, as would soon be time for him to lose the will to live, allowing Momoshiki to permanently possess him, effectively reincarnating. Boruto vowed to never let that happen before Momoshiki dissipated again.

While Shikamaru briefed Team 7 on their upcoming mission relating to Ada and
Daemon
, Momoshiki's consciousness listened besides Boruto, and was briefly perceived by Kawaki. Nearby, Sasuke also recognised the feeling while discussing the mission with Naruto.

When
Amado
 began explaining the shinjutsu origins of his modifications to Kara members, Momoshiki's and Boruto's thoughts became available to one another. He confirmed to Boruto Amado's claims and theory regarding Shibai Ōtsutsuki, but remained suspicious of him and Ada, having never heard of her entrancing ability despite having extensive knowledge of all shinjutsu. He also requested Boruto not to let Kawaki become aware of their exchange, wishing not to fight him again.

The next day, Boruto overheard Momoshiki's thoughts as he realised the identity of Ada's entrancing ability, but Momoshiki refused to share it with him. Kawaki realised Boruto was talking to Momoshiki, and addressed Momoshiki himself, telling him to come out.






Momoshiki warns Boruto.



Momoshiki manifested himself again to intervene on Kawaki's behalf, absorbing Shikamaru's jutsu which was stopping him from shrinking down. Kawaki was puzzled by the assistance, as he intended to kill Boruto and Momoshiki, even sealing Naruto and Hinata away to stop them from interfering. When Boruto regained control, Momoshiki teased him over losing an eye, and declared that the future he foretold had already began.

After a light flashed in the sky, Boruto was attacked by Mitsuki, who blamed him for something that happened to Naruto. Momoshiki explained how Ada's true ability switched Boruto's and Kawaki's histories in everyone's memory. When Boruto was restrained by
Team 10
, he refused Momoshiki's offer to take over and kill them. Sasuke rescued Boruto, despite his own memory being affected, due to Sarada's request. Among the inconsistencies of reality with his own memories, was his sensing of Momoshiki's presence in Boruto, despite remembering him being attached to Kawaki. Ada later arrived with Daemon and apologised for her part in switching their histories. All the while, Momoshiki attempted to break Boruto's spirit, only for Boruto to brush his comments aside. He even pointed out to Momoshiki he didn't see himself as losing everything, stressing his own ancestry.

New Era: Part II

Matsuri and Ryū Arc

Main article:
Matsuri and Ryū Arc

As Momoshiki continued to sulk about his hollow existence within Boruto's mind, the said person approached him. Having narrowly survived against the horrible power of
Jura
, Boruto offered Momoshiki a deal: Grant Boruto his full power and cooperation to defeat the
Human God Trees
, and once they succeed, he will give Momoshiki his body. This offer intrigued Momoshiki.

In Other Media

Video Games

Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki is a playable character in the following video games:

Game name
Japanese release
English release
Jumputi Heroes
28 March 2018
Naruto Mobile
2016
2016
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 4
4 February 2016
9 February 2016
Naruto x Boruto: Ninja Voltage
22 November 2017
22 November 2017
Naruto x Boruto: Ultimate Ninja Storm Connections
16 November 2023
17 November 2023

In the
Road to Boruto
 DLC pack of
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 4
, Momoshiki was brought as a non-playable character and boss in the game's story. He is later added as a playable character in an additional DLC pack.

Momoshiki appears again in
Naruto x Boruto: Ultimate Ninja Storm Connections
, with his transformed state being redesigned to match how it appeared in the manga and anime. He also appears as a playable character when possessing Boruto's body, as apart of the season pass and 5th DLC pack.

In
Naruto to Boruto: Shinobi Striker
, Momoshiki is playable while he is in possession of Boruto's body.

Trivia






Masashi Kishimoto
's sketch of Momoshiki.



Like his cohorts Kinshiki and
Urashiki
, Momoshiki was named after a Japanese folk hero whose name includes "Tarō", in this case the legendary hero
Momotarō
. The folktale has minor parallels to the folklore from which Kaguya was derived, with the boy arriving on Earth inside a giant peach and being raised by a family of commoners. Momoshiki's ability to create a
dog
,
monkey
 and
pheasant
 is also influenced by the character, who befriends the three animals on his adventure.

Momoshiki's character design is based on
Minamoto no Yoshitsune
, born Ushiwakamaru,
 a famous warrior and military commander during the
Heian period
, and master of the warrior monk
Benkei
, whom Kinshiki was likewise inspired by.

According to folklore, the young Ushiwakamaru trained under
Sōjōbō
, king of the
tengu
, at a temple on
Mount
 Kurama, to which the upbringing of Momoshiki's vessel, Boruto, may be a reference.

Shortly before and after absorbing Kinshiki, Momoshiki's Byakugan are depicted without veins in the manga.

In
Boruto: Naruto the Movie
, after absorbing Kinshiki, Momoshiki's character sheet depicts him being 200 cm tall.

References