This article is about the episode.  For other uses, see
Monster
.

"
Monsters
" (
怪物
,
Bakemon
) is episode 198 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Naruto
 asks
Kawaki
 about
Delta
's identity, and Kawaki confirms she's a
Kara
 Inner. Delta is aware of who Naruto is, and asks him to step aside, which he refuses. Kawaki warns them of Inner's strength, and
Boruto
 notes his apprehension. Delta decides to kill Naruto, who instructs Boruto and Kawaki on what to do. Naruto and Delta begin fighting, exchanging physical blows, and until Naruto gets an opening. He attempts to land a
Rasengan
, but Delta absorbs it with her
modified eyes
. She attacks him by transforming her leg, similar to Kawaki, and confirms her body has been extensively enhanced with
scientific ninja tools
. Naruto dons his
chakra cloak
 and resumes fighting. He blocks her kick, but Delta transforms her leg, injuring Naruto. He breaks the leg with
chakra arms
, and she accuses him of being as much of a monster as she is while regenerating her leg. Concerned, Boruto tries intervening, but Naruto warns him against it. He threatens Delta, goading her into keeping engaged with him. He asks Delta what Kawaki is to her, and she realises he's trying to trick her into revealing information.
 She removes the spike on him, and he stands up,
healing the wound
. Boruto is relieved, and Kawaki stresses they need to leave. Naruto and Delta resume fighting, and when they're locked in place, Delta releases the Rasengan she absorbed from her eye. She makes use of her
modified body
 to attack. Naruto destroys her legs with a
Lava Release Rasenshuriken
, but she merely regrows them, so he strategises how he should hit her. Boruto wants to create an opening for Naruto to attack, but Kawaki reminds him of Naruto's orders, and explains that by staying away, it allows Naruto to go all out, and adds that Naruto is the one leading the fight, as to keep attacks from coming in their direction. Delta comments on Naruto's abilities, but when he suggests her to surrender, she unleashes beams from her eyes. Naruto dodges them, and Kawaki is concerned by them, explaining they were designed to counter
regenerative abilities
. Naruto deduces such an attack must be chakra taxing, but Delta counters that it only has to hit once. She tries getting close to him to land her beams, but he keeps dodging. She spots the children through her
drone
, and sends a beam their way. Naruto punches her, knocking the beam off course. She attacks Boruto, throwing him Naruto's way, and grabs
Himawari
. Boruto activates his
Kāma
 and throws a
Vanishing Rasengan
 her way. Despite it disappearing, Delta is able to spot it with her drone, and absorbs it. She throws Himawari in the air to force Naruto getting in the way of her beams. When the smoke clears, all are shocked to see that Kawaki blocked the beams with his transformed arm. Kawaki tells Boruto they're even on the vase. Delta is baffled by Kawaki's attitude, growing more furious at the situation.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Himawari Uzumaki
Saori Hayami
早見 沙織
Hayami Saori
Kawaki
Yuma Uchida
内田 雄馬
Uchida Yūma
Delta
Hoko Kuwashima
桑島 法子
Kuwashima Hōko