This article is about the planetary body. For the Village Hidden under the Moon, see
Tsukigakure
.







The
Moon
 (
月
,
tsuki
) is a planetary body orbiting
Earth
. It was created a millennium ago by
Hamura
 and
Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki
, the former of which gave it its name.

History





The moon being created.



The Moon was created by Hagoromo and his brother, Hamura, when they sealed their mother,
Kaguya Ōtsutsuki
, with
Six Paths — Chibaku Tensei
. After the Moon's creation, Hamura took leadership of the
Ōtsutsuki clan
 and settled on the Moon in order to guard the
Demonic Statue of the Outer Path
 inside.
 Hagoromo asked Hamura to monitor mankind, a task that was passed to the rest of the Ōtsutsuki when Hamura died. Over time, a civil war broke out between the main and branch families over ideologies, which drove Hamura's clan to near extinction and his message became misinterpreted: if mankind was deemed unworthy, they were to be destroyed.





The moon reflecting the Infinite Tsukuyomi.



Centuries later, sometime prior to the
Second Shinobi World War
,
Madara Uchiha

summoned
 the Demonic Statue from the Moon with his
Rinnegan
, intent on using it to bring peace to the world.
 In order to achieve this goal, Madara came up with the
Eye of the Moon Plan
, wherein the Ten-Tails would be revived and its
jinchūriki
 would cast the
Infinite Tsukuyomi
 on the Moon, thereby ending all conflicts by trapping the world in a perpetual dream.
 Fulfilment of much of the plan ultimately falls to
Obito Uchiha
 upon Madara's death, though Madara is
revived
 in time to see the plan completed during the
Fourth Shinobi World War
. The Infinite Tsukuyomi is later broken by the combined efforts of
Naruto Uzumaki
 and
Sasuke Uchiha
.






The Moon, cut in half by Toneri Ōtsutsuki.



Two years after the war
, the last surviving member of the Ōtsutsuki clan's branch family,
Toneri Ōtsutsuki
, began moving the Moon toward the Earth so that he could destroy it and rebuild a purer world from the ashes. As the Moon began breaking up in the Earth's gravity and increasingly raining meteors upon its surface,
Konohagakure
 sent a
team
 to rescue
Hanabi Hyūga
, eventually ending up on the Moon. Toneri was eventually defeated by Naruto and Hamura's actual mission was afterwards explained to him by
Hinata Hyūga
. Apologetic, Toneri restored the Moon to its previous orbit and, despite an invitation to live on the Earth, stayed on the Moon, vowing that it would never threaten the world again.

Environment

The exterior of the Moon is barren, covered with craters and canyons. It has a weak gravity, but is still able to maintain a breathable atmosphere inside the Moon. Despite its harsh conditions, the Ōtsutsuki were able to settle on the Moon due to their unique anatomy and physiology. To improve its habitability and allow their population to thrive, the Ōtsutsuki built the
Tenseigan
 at the centre of the Moon, granting them light, powering their equipment, and allowing them to control the Moon's movements. Similar to a
Dyson sphere
, they created a vast environment on the Moon's interior surface, complete with oceans, mountains, forests, and various animal species, however this environment was far smaller than the full size of the Moon itself. The full size is unknown, but its at least as big as a small country. Several villages were built across the landscape, which were steadily abandoned as the Ōtsutsuki's population dwindled.

The artificial sun at the centre of the Moon created by the Tenseigan is actually a
barrier
, within which are housed various important sites, such as Hamura's shrine, the Tenseigan itself, and a castle where Toneri lives. All are guarded by an army of
puppets
, controllable without
chakra threads
 because of the Tenseigan, as well as the
golem created by Toneri
.

There is at least one portal that enables travel from the Earth to the Moon and back. Located underground, the portal itself takes the form of a spring of green water, though contact with the water doesn't leave one wet. By entering the portal, one travels through a dimension filled with various orbs, some of which are earthen in composition, others
trap those who contact them
 in their own memories. At the Moon's end of the portal is the
Gatekeeper
, a giant crab that prevents unauthorised access. This portal collapses shortly after Toneri's defeat.

Trivia






Gaara's destructiveness and blood-lust was heightened during a full moon.



The anime often depicts the Moon as red during significant events.

There have been cases that both the tailed beasts and their jinchūriki are affected to a certain degree during a full Moon:

According to
Gaara
,
Shukaku
's blood-lust is especially strong during a full Moon.

In the anime,
Blue B
, during his time as
Gyūki
's jinchūriki, noted that he would have trouble sleeping during the nights of the full Moon, because anytime he would stare at it, it would reflect the loneliness in his heart. Gyūki would take advantage of those moments of weakness and try to control over Blue B's body. Blue B was also shown to take sleeping pills to help with this side-effect.

An early account of the story given in the series, Hagoromo alone is said to have created the Moon at the end of his life, using it to store the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path so that the Ten-Tails could never be reborn.

There are two other known moons that exist in the
Naruto
 universe, both of which are located in
Kaguya Ōtsutsuki
's
dimensions
. The first, which is located in the core dimension, was created by
Naruto Uzumaki
 and
Sasuke Uchiha
 after they managed to seal Kaguya for a second time. The second moon is located in the icy realm, and the circumstances in how it was created are unknown.

In the anime, when Kaguya first cast the
Infinite Tsukuyomi
, she used a moon from an unidentified location, by
opening a portal
 to another dimension.

References