Mountains' Graveyard.



The
Mountains' Graveyard
 (
山岳の墓場
,
Sangaku no Hakaba
) is a mountainous region located at the north-most region of land between
Takigakure
 and
Otogakure
.
 It has dense forestry and the bones of many giant creatures can be seen jutting out of it.
 It contains an abandoned mine that is connected to
Ōtsutsuki Clan
 ruins,
 which
Madara
 and
Obito Uchiha
 used as their secret hideout for the duration of the
Eye of the Moon Plan
.

At the start of the
Fourth Shinobi World War
,
Kabuto Yakushi
 managed to locate the place while also using a trail of corpses to lead
Anko Mitarashi
's
team
 there as well.

Overview

The Ōtsutsuki clan ruins.
The flowering tree after losing the Demonic Statue.
1/2

Some time after being defeated by
Hashirama Senju
, Madara set up a base here.
 As Madara was living off life support provided by the
Demonic Statue of the Outer Path
,
White Zetsu
 clones were instead used to gather information from the surface world and carry out any other functions as they could
travel
 through the earth. There were passages that seemingly led to different countries as Madara was able to have the White Zetsu retrieve a heavily wounded Obito who was in the
Land of Grass
.
 This passage was eventually closed off on Madara's orders
 and later smashed open by Obito with the powers of the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path.
 A part of the cave was destroyed by Sasuke when he tested out his
Eternal Mangekyō Sharingan
,
 while another part of the hideout was damaged when he escaped.





The underground section of the hideout.



When it was occupied by Madara, there was only
Hashirama's living clone
 and the Zetsu minions released by
Black Zetsu
, the tree which grew from it and the Demonic Statue seated upon it, a large tree stump which Madara occupied, and a wooden bed on a single platform. On a wall hung several of Madara's tools such as his
gunbai
, a
kama
, a
chain with weights
, several
swords
,
giant shuriken
 and some spare cloaks.
 Though Madara claimed there was no exits where they were,
 many hidden entrances and exits had been carved out, concealed beneath the bones of animals,
 or else etched into the walls.
 Shortly before the Fourth Shinobi World War, beneath the clone of Hashirama is a flooded cavern where the rest of the White Zetsu Army clones were stored.
 Fifteen years following the Fourth Shinobi World War, having lost the Demonic Statue as its chakra supply, the flowering tree withered, with the water beneath it having seemingly dried up. Surviving remnants of the White Zetsu hid themselves among the roots of the tree, while the still-developing Zetsu attached to it decomposed. A majority of them were eventually discovered and killed by Sasuke.

Laboratory





Obito's lab.



Within the base there is also a laboratory where Obito carries out various experiments. Obito brought
Danzō Shimura
's corpse here in hopes of retrieving
Shisui Uchiha
's
Sharingan
 only to discover that the elder had crushed it before his death — an action which Obito cursed him for.
 He also transplanted
Itachi Uchiha
's Sharingan into Sasuke here.

Inside the lab is a massive wall decorated with the
Uchiha clan
 symbol on top of it, which stores a large collection of eyes, which are each individually suspended in fluid inside built-in labelled glass containers, allowing Obito access to many Sharingan replacements should he need them. The laboratory is also equipped with an operating table and instruments for surgical use, such as his attempt to extract Shisui's eye and transplant Itachi's eyes into Sasuke.

Trivia

In an episode summary for
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations

episode 51
, the mining town that is in proximity of the Ōtsutsuki Clan ruins is said to be near the border of the
Land of Fire
.

References