This article is about the group. For the story arc, see
Mujina Bandits Arc
.

The
Mujina Bandits
 (
貉強盗団
,
Mujina Gōtōdan
,
Viz:
 Mujina Robbery Ring) are an international criminal group of
missing-nin
 from varying shinobi villages, all under the leadership of
Shojoji
.

Known Missions

Assassinate Kokuri (Anime only)

Status:
 Partial success

Shojoji
took on
 the appearance of
Tsukiyo
 to evade his own capture; was imprisoned in
Hōzuki Castle
 where he found a deserter named
Kokuri
. To prevent him from revealing the organisation's secrets, Shojoji (under the guise of Tsukiyo) conspired with the head jailer
Benga
 to assassinate Kokuri. Though Shojoji managed to kill Kokuri and took his form, he was forced to give all he knew of said secrets that lines up with a notebook that Kokuri gave to
Boruto Uzumaki
 in order to maintain his disguise before escaping.

Break into Konoha's bank (Manga only)

Status:
 Failure

A three-man team was tasked with breaking into Konoha's bank and retrieving an item, however, before they could rendezvous with their leader, they were stopped by
Team Konohamaru
.

Holding the Fire Daimyō's son for ransom

Status:
 Failure

Shojoji assumes the form of the
Fire Daimyō
's
servant
 in order to kidnap the daimyō's
son
 to hold him for a ransom of 500 million ryō and the release of all the prisoners in Hōzuki Castle; which served as an elaborate ploy for Shojoji to assume Tentō's form and usurp the Daimyō with his
kinjutsu
. Team Konohamaru once again thwarts their objectives, resulting in the imprisonment of the entire gang.

Known Members

Tsukiyo
: the former second-in-command of the organisation. Sacrificed by Shojoji to preserve his identity in
Hōzuki Castle
.
(Anime only)


Kokuri
: a former accountant who deserted the organisation after learning of its nature. Killed by Shojoji.
(Anime only)


A three-man cell was tasked with retrieving an item from Konoha's bank.
(Manga only)


Another member was seen spying on Tentō Madoka while corresponding with their boss Shojoji.

Trivia

Like fellow
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 villains Shojoji and
Tanuki Shigaraki
, the name of the Mujina Bandits is a reference to shapeshifting yokai from Japanese folklore: the
mujina
, or "badger".

The anime replaces the Mujina Bandits' bank robbers with three random thieves, who have no affiliation with the gang.

In the anime, the objective of the Mujina Bandits is expanded upon, with Shojoji revealing that by devouring Ikkyū Madoka, he can eventually reach a point where he can create a lawless world where people are free to commit heinous acts.

References