This is the trademark ability of the
Akimichi clan
. When performed, the Akimichi grows in size, proportionately increasing their weight and strength and thus making their physical attacks more powerful.
 Clothes they're wearing will change in size to accomodate them, as will certain weaponry, such as the
bo
.
 Such a significant change in size places a great burden on the user's body.
 In keeping with this, users typically are not seen maintaining the Multi-Size Technique for long periods of time, instead reverting back to their normal form after they've concluded their series of attacks.
 During the
Fourth Shinobi World War
,
Chōza
 and
Chōji Akimichi
 at one point seem to use the Multi-Size Technique for several hours.

There are two ways the Multi-Size has been depicted in the series. The first is where the user becomes extremely round, with most of the body's expansion being applied to their torso; because this is what happens to
Chōchō Akimichi
 when she uses it, she dislikes performing it.
 The second is where the user simply becomes larger, bigger than their normal size but not so big as when they use the
Super Multi-Size Technique
.
 In the manga, Chōji uses the first during Part I and the second during Part II and onwards, suggesting the user's age or experience has something to do with it. Episodes of the anime set during Part II occasionally show Chōji using the first version, instead suggesting the two versions are interchangeable.

Trivia

During the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, use of the Multi-Size Technique is shown to produce extra markings under the user's eyes.
 Such markings are not present in earlier depictions.

In
Naruto Retsuden
, Chōji uses the Multi-Size Technique in response to a poison needle he's struck by. Because the needle would only have enough poison to kill a regular-sized person, it would be harmless to his enlarged body. He's forced to continue using the Multi-Size Technique until his body breaks down the poison, limiting his mobility since he's indoors at the time.

References