This technique is a larger-scale version of the standard
Shadow Clone Technique
; there is no real difference between them beyond the number of shadow clones being created. Creating even a single shadow clone will require half of a user's
chakra
, for which reason the normal Shadow Clone Technique is generally only safe to use for
jōnin
.
 Because of how many clones are created with the Multiple Shadow Clone Technique, the chakra cost is far greater, rendering it unsafe to use for most people other than the
Hokage
. For this reason, the
First Hokage
 declared it
forbidden
 and hid it away in the
Scroll of Seals
.
Naruto Uzumaki
 is among the few exceptions to this rule because of the
sheer amount
 of chakra he has access to.

There is no established number of created clones separating the regular Shadow Clone Technique from the Multiple Shadow Clone Technique. Average users tend to make no more than five shadow clones at a time with the regular version, whereas Naruto will make dozens, hundreds, or
sometimes
 even a thousand with the Multiple version.
Naruto Shinden: Parent and Child Day
 takes it in the opposite direction, showing Naruto use the Multiple Shadow Clone Technique yet only managing to make two clones because of how tired he is. Naruto sometimes doesn't even differentiate between the two techniques, simply saying "Shadow Clone Technique" regardless of how many clones he creates.

Whereas a small number of clones can be useful in a variety of ways, the huge number of clones created for this technique are almost exclusively used offensively, overwhelming opponents with countless attacks from all around.
 Naruto also utilises the Multiple Shadow Clone Technique while creating the
Wind Release: Rasengan
, completing years' worth of training within a matter of days.

Trivia

At the end of
Prologue — Land of Waves
,
Kakashi
 claims to not have enough chakra to defeat
Gatō
's thugs. Despite this, he performs a "Kakashi Version" (
カカシVer.
) Multiple Shadow Clone Technique, creating dozens of copies of himself and scaring the thugs away.

In
Kakashi Hiden
, while waiting for his new arm, Naruto creates shadow clones with a one-handed seal: a cross with his left hand's index and middle finger.

In the anime, when
Hōki
 claims to be using the Multiple Shadow Clone Technique, he is actually using the
Haze Clone Technique
.

In the anime,
Boruto Uzumaki
 pretends to use the Multiple Shadow Clone Technique by having his classmates
transform
 into him.

He later uses the Multiple Shadow Clone Technique through the
Shinobi Gauntlet
,
 and then by himself against Deepa.

See Also

Multiple Wood Release Clone Technique

References