"
Musical Chairs
" (
椅子取りゲーム
,
Isutori Gēmu
) is episode 278 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

While waiting for the next experiment,
Batta
 struggles with having killed civilians for hers and
Fugō
's survival, and rebuffs
Yatsume
's attempt to comfort her. She also clashes with
Shamo
, and chides
Boruto
 when he tries convincing her of the importance of cooperation.
Kiseru
 doesn't judge her, but warns against trying anything against him, showing off his
Fire Release
. She mocks him for showing his hand,
Namua
 and Boruto having to calm him down. Yatsume shares her dream of finally changing her hair colour if she survives, and asks for others dreams. Boruto wants to emulate
his master
. Shamo wants to make his grandmother happy. Namua has no dreams, and
Rokuro
 recognises the tattoo on his arm as a prison tattoo. Namua recounts his criminal past, having killed and stolen so much he became paranoid about becoming the next victim. He changed his life after meeting a priest he couldn't bring himself to kill, becoming an ascetic. Fugō wants to deliver a payment to his client, his company's fate at stake. Batta refuses to share her story, but Yatsume notes her use of "need" instead of "want" when she mentions money, so she claims she needs money to buy a beach island.
 Kiseru wants to soak on hot spring on his mountain village, near the border with
Takigakure
.
Ōga
 arrives, and Kiseru picks the next experiment, "Pressure", which Ōga finds the harshest yet.
Sarada
 returns to
Konoha
, meeting with
Kawaki
,
Mitsuki
 having stayed behind to investigate the scene. She is investigating everyone who bought tickets to the same
Thunder Train
 to see if anyone suspicious was aboard with Boruto. Namua finds bloodstains on the experiment room, agitating Shamo, which irritates Kiseru. Shamo finds and presses a switch causing the ceiling to come down on them. Yatsume readily tries blocking it with her
Lightning Release
 chains, but they break. Boruto's
Rasengan
 also has no effect. Rokuro asks what Shamo did, and he explains he tried turning on the lights. Boruto notices other switches on other walls, but each one pressed makes the situation worse, causing moving saws and spikes to appear. One of them retracts the saws, but the ceiling spikes remain. Batta and Fugō argue against pressing the last switch, but taking Ōga's behaviour in consideration, Boruto thinks he wouldn't end them like this, and presses it. Depressions appear on the walls, where they can hide from the ceiling spikes. Fugō overtakes Shamo, Rokuro fights Kiseru, Boruto lets Yatsume have one spot, as thanks for saving him in the first experiment and because she injured herself when her jutsu failed to stop the ceiling. Namua observes the ceiling. Kiseru's
Fire Release
 endangers the others, but Boruto puts it out with his
Water Release
. He notices the water drains away, and determines there must be space below the floor. Boruto and Kiseru try breaking through the floor, while Shame tries holding the ceiling with his
earth wall
. Namua joins Boruto and Kiseru. Batta needs to kill Yatsume to take her spot, who wants to know the reason for her death if Batta indeed kills her. Batta confesses she needs the money to buy back her birthplace from rich people who bought it for resort development. Boruto convinces her to help by arguing it'll go against playing into Ōga's hand. She helps Boruto find the
weakest spot on the floor
 for Boruto to strike, comparing it to diamond cutting. The extra space is enough so no one dies from the ceiling coming down. Ōga congratulates Boruto, as it'll make the next experiment more interesting, and lets them return to the break room. Batta bumps into Kiseru as he leaves. Fugō checks on his briefcase contents, not money, but a family photo and a canteen. Batta confides in Boruto that Ōga might have another minion among them, revealing a working communication device she swiped from someone else, who kept it hidden instead of trying to use to contact anyone outside. He is surprised when she whispers who had it. Sarada discovered five passengers with unclear backgrounds, and comparing it to Konoha's records, she and Kawaki discover one of them was a
Kara
 Outer, Kiseru.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Shamo
Aoi Inase
いなせ あおい
Inase Aoi
Yatsume
Sara Matsumoto
松本 沙羅
Matsumoto Sara
Kiseru
Katsunori Okai
岡井 カツノリ
Okai Katsunori
Namua
Shinya Hamazoe
浜添 伸也
Hamazoe Shin'ya
Batta
Chihiro Ikki
一木 千洋
Ikki Chihiro
Fugō
Taira Kikumoto
菊本 平
Kikumoto Taira
Rokuro
Atsushi Abe
阿部 敦
Abe Atsushi
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Kawaki
Yuma Uchida
内田 雄馬
Uchida Yūma
Ōga
Kappei Yamaguchi
山口 勝平
Yamaguchi Kappei