"
My Name is Konohamaru!
" (
木ノ葉丸だ　コレ!
,
Konohamaru da Kore!
) is episode 2 of the original
Naruto
 anime.

Synopsis

Naruto
 takes a bizarre photo to use for his Ninja Registration Form, causing the
Third Hokage
 to order him to retake it. However, Naruto refuses, and tries to persuade the Third with the
Sexy Technique
, which gives the latter a nose bleed and falls. Suddenly, the Third's grandson comes charging into the room, wishing to challenge him for the title as
Hokage
, but slips and falls. Konohamaru tries to claim Naruto made him trip, angering Naruto. Konohamaru chastises Naruto, believing that since he's the grandson of the Third Hokage, Naruto wouldn't harm him. However, Naruto replies that he doesn't care and punches the boy.

After Naruto leaves,
Ebisu
, Konohamaru's trainer, informs the boy not to let Naruto bother him, as he is beneath him. He carries on to say that if he wished to quickly be the next Hokage, he needs to stick by him. However, during his speech, Konohamaru left to follow Naruto without him noticing. Ebisu panics and rushes off to find him.

While walking through
Konohagakure
, Naruto is followed by Konohamaru who tries to avoid being spotted. However, Naruto realises this, seeing through Konohamaru's disguises. Impressed by this, Konohamaru orders Naruto to train him. While seeming uninterested at first, after Konohamaru refers to Naruto as "boss", he accepts. After training, Konohamaru explains to Naruto that the reason he wants to be the next Hokage was so that people can see him as more than just the grandson of the Third Hokage.

Elsewhere, on the rooftop of the Hokage's office, the Third is seen looking up at the
Fourth Hokage
's monument. After
Iruka
 appears and explains how Naruto believes that becoming a
genin
 will change things, the Third explains that people don't change easily. The Third goes on to say that due to Naruto containing the
Nine-Tailed Fox
 within himself, people fear the beast could take over or that Naruto may be the beast.

Ebisu finally finds Konohamaru and Naruto. Ebisu tells Konohamaru to come with him, but Konohamaru refuses. After announcing that he is learning how to beat his grandfather in order to become Hokage, Konohamaru performs the Sexy Technique. Worried that Konohamaru is becoming a delinquent due to Naruto, Ebisu tries to pull Konohamaru away with him. However, Naruto tries to stop him by using the
Shadow Clone Technique
 to battle Ebisu. As Ebisu prepares himself, he is surprised when Naruto and his clones use the Sexy Technique, causing the latter to have a huge nose bleed and fall unconscious. Naruto then tells Konohamaru that there is no shortcut to becoming the Hokage, exclaiming that they would be rivals, and that they would fight one day for the title.

Trivia

When Naruto's Ninja Registration Form is seen, his Ninja-ID is mistakenly given as 102607 instead of 012607.

In the edited English version, when the Third Hokage and Ebisu saw Naruto perform the Sexy Technique, the blood from their noses was censored.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Maile Flanagan
Konohamaru
Ikue Otani
大谷 育江
Ōtani Ikue
Colleen O'Shaughnessey
Third Hokage: Sarutobi
Hidekatsu Shibata
柴田 秀勝
Shibata Hidekatsu
Steve Kramer
Iruka
Toshihiko Seki
関 俊彦
Seki Toshihiko
Quinton Flynn
Ebisu
Nobuo Tobita
飛田 展男
Tobita Nobuo
Crispin Freeman
Genzō
Eiji Yanagisawa
柳沢 栄治
Yanagisawa Eiji
Wally Wingert
Woman
Yuki Masuda
増田 ゆき
Masuda Yuki
Stephanie Sheh
Gal Naruto
Ema Kogure
小暮 英麻
Kogure Ema
Stephanie Sheh