This article is about the episode. For the chapter, see
The Real Dream
.

"
My True Dream
" (
本当の夢
,
Hontō no Yume
) is episode 369 of the
Naruto: Shippūden
 anime.

Summary

With the
Uchiha
 and the
Senju

clans
 forming an alliance,
Madara
 and
Hashirama
's childhood dreams of a village where children were not sent to battle had come to fruition. The village itself would ally with the
Land of Fire
. Early on the two co-founders would stroll around the village looking after the well-being of the villagers. On the cliff where they once talked about their dream as children, both reminisce the moment and Hashirama stated that the
Sarutobi
 and
Shimura
 clans wish to join the village, with others to follow suit. Hashirama also stated that someone has to be chosen to represent the village as the Hokage and a name must be chosen.
 Madara suggested
Konohagakure
, a name which a depressed Hashirama states is too simplistic. The Senju leader later suggested that the chosen
Hokage
's face be carved onto the cliff face as a symbol of it watching over the village. At that moment
Tobirama
 arrived and called his brother away, without even acknowledging Madara. Having heard of his elder brother's intentions to choose Madara as the Hokage, Tobirama argues that things are done democratically now and everyone, even the Uchiha, would not see Madara in the same light as Hashirama. With Madara having overheard the brothers' conversation, Hashirama agreed and he became the First Hokage. Later, Madara brought Hashirama to the
Naka Shrine
, as the first outsider to see the Uchiha stone tablet. With his
Sharingan
, Madara decrypted that while one interpretation is that two opposing forces can come together to create peace, another interpretation is that cooperation is a quiet method of conflict. Not understanding Madara's true agenda, Hashirama attempts to persuade him to not leave the village but is unsuccessful. Since then the village has prospered, and the other Great Nations as well as some of the smaller nations have copied the village system. But Madara returned to attack Konoha and destroy his previous dream. The conflict continued as Hashirama managed to strip the
Susanoo
 armour off
Kurama
 and bind the tailed beast from Madara's control at the cost of his
Sage Art Wood Release: True Several Thousand Hands
. Having been stripped of their most powerful weapons, Madara and Hashirama briefly stared each other down before charging at each other, yelling each other's names.

Trivia

In this episode, the
Academy
 already has its name. According to a timeline in the
first fanbook
, however, the name was given to it some time after Hashirama's death.

The
Yamanaka Flowers
 shop also appears in this episode.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Hashirama Senju
Takayuki Sugo
菅生 隆之
Sugō Takayuki
Peter Lurie
Tobirama Senju
Kenyu Horiuchi
堀内 賢雄
Horiuchi Ken'yū
Jamieson Price
Hashirama Senju (child)
Yuki Tai
泰 勇気
Tai Yūki
Max Mittelman
Madara Uchiha (child)
Go Inoue
井上 剛
Inoue Gō
Xander Mobus
Madara Uchiha
Naoya Uchida
内田 直哉
Uchida Naoya
Neil Kaplan