The
Mysterious Peacock Method
 is a trademark technique of
Hoshigakure
 and utilises
chakra
-enriching radiation produced by a
meteorite
 that fell 200 years prior to the start of the series.

Usage

The technique itself manifests in the form of a feather-shaped array behind the Hoshigakure ninja and spreading out from behind them like a peacock's tail feathers, hence the name. This chakra is easily manipulated into various shapes to create techniques, making it one of the most versatile jutsu around. These techniques are honed through Star Training, which requires the ninja to spend large amounts of time focusing on their chakra and meditating in the presence of the meteorite.

Drawbacks






Mizura showing the side effects from the radiation poisoning.



The meteorite's radiation greatly increases user's chakra strength and levels, but the same enhanced chakra is highly dangerous, potentially causing great damage to their physical body. Even for those who master the technique, there is still a high chance that their body will slowly weaken and eventually perish. At least three people (including
Sumaru
's father,
Hotarubi
, who dies from extensive exposure), show severe physical trauma.
Natsuhi
 is the only known person who endured the training with no side effecs. This led the
Third Hoshikage
 to
ban
 the training. With the meteor's destruction after
Akahoshi
's defeat, the training became lost forever.

Variants

Beast
 (
獣
,
Kemono
): The chakra feathers change to the form of an animal, such as a dog. The chakra that the beast is made of is dense enough to repel shuriken thrown at it.
Join
 (
合
,
Go
,
English TV:
 Synthesis): Combines two chakra beasts into one larger beast.
Destroy
 (
斬
,
Zan
,
English TV:
 Cut): The chakra feathers are used to attack.
Wings
 (
翼
,
Yoku
): The chakra feathers form wings strong enough to support a normal sized human in short flight.
The chakra feathers turn into ropes to ensnare and strangle a target.
If the user is close to death, they can use their remaining chakra to draw a symbol in the ground which allows them to temporarily resurrect themselves as a ghost-like apparition to even the score with whoever killed them. This apparition can seemingly deflect attacks, use any moves it could in life and be cloned through another's use of the
Shadow Clone Technique
.
Dragon
 (
龍
,
Ryū
): After implanting the star into himself, Akahoshi formed a dragon that could shoot blasts of star chakra at the opponent, and can also grow wings to increase its power.
Chakra Rope
 (
チャクラの縄
,
Chakura no Nawa
): The user extends their chakra into a binding rope that cannot be cut.
Chakra Predation
 (
チャクラの捕食
,
Chakura no Hoshoku
): The user steals star chakra from another comrade and devours it, making their own stronger.

Trivia

When Akahoshi implanted the meteorite into himself, a spectral dragon was formed. However, this may not be a true technique, as Akahoshi was under control of the meteorite and did not form the dragon himself.