This article is about information on the character. For information on the ability, see
Naraka Path
.

This man was a priest of an unknown village.

Background

He was a priest of a burnt village that
Jiraiya
 met during his journey to find his
disciple
. Years later, his body was used by
Nagato
 to channel the power of the
Naraka Path
 in Nagato's
Six Paths of Pain
.

Personality

While as a priest, he emphasised prayer to his followers. He seemed to be a calm, level-headed individual who was devout to his religion.

Appearance






The Naraka Paths appearance as one of Nagato's Six Paths.



In the anime, while alive, he was a fairly tall, stocky man with grey hair and eyes. He wore a green poncho-like top and matching coloured pants. Much like the
Kusagakure shinobi
 who would also one day become one of the Six Paths of Pain, his complexion was noticeably darker when he was alive.

As the Naraka Path, like all of the Six Paths, his hair was dyed orange and had multiple piercings, such as a circular stud on the bridge of its nose, a diagonal row of studs on each of its cheeks, three spike piercings in each of its ears, and a stud on each of its shoulders near its neck. As a mark of Nagato's control, the
Rinnegan
 appeared in its eyes.

Legacy

As part of the Six Paths of Pain, the Naraka Path is used for a number of different purposes over the years: all six Paths are used to overthrow and kill
Hanzō
; when Jiraiya infiltrates
Amegakure
 in order to find out more about
Akatsuki
, the Naraka Path fights him and ultimately contributes to his death; in the anime, the Naraka Path assists in the capture of the
Six-Tails
; it participates during
Pain's Assault
, and like the other Paths it is defeated by
Naruto Uzumaki
.

In Other Media

Video Games

Naraka Path (character) is a playable character in the following video games:

Game name
Japanese release
English release
Naruto Mobile
2016
2016
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Blazing
14 July 2016
24 August 2016
Naruto: Shinobi Collection
2014
Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Online
14 April 2013
20 July 2016