The
Nara Clan
 (
奈良一族
,
Nara Ichizoku
) or
Nara Family
 (
奈良家
,
Nara-ke
) is one of the many clans of
Konohagakure
. They are known for tending deer and their ability to manipulate shadows through the use of
Yin Release
. Two of its members,
Shikaku
 and his son
Shikamaru
, are well known for their high-level of intelligence, and both have served as advisors to the
Hokage
. After Shikaku's death, Shikamaru became the head of the clan.

Overview

The clan has kept a
book
 with various medicine preparations and effects for generations, implying that they are skilled in the area of medicine and healing arts. Among the medicine described in this book are the
secret pills
 used by the
Akimichi clan
. The Nara also have a special bond with the deer of the
Nara Clan Forest
, and only members of the clan are allowed inside without the deer attacking unless an outsider is given permission.

The Nara clan has a
special relationship
 with the Akimichi and the
Yamanaka clan
. For several generations, members of these three families have formed "Ino–Shika–Chō" trios, named after the first part of the names of the members with the Nara members being the "Shika" in the trio. To strengthen the unity between the three clans, a member of the
Sarutobi clan
 will give them special earrings to present to each generation head when they are promoted to
chūnin
 after which they will swear their oaths. The earrings also symbolise that they are considered adults by their respective clans. The clan members also seem to favour wearing their hair in ponytails.

In the anime, it was revealed that the Nara clan also has a research facility with an abundance of medicines stored in it. It is located deep in the mountains, and thus has little security.
Mizuki
 raided this laboratory for ingredients for his
cursed seal
.

Upon the current head, Shikamaru, and his marriage with
Temari
, the
Kazekage clan
's bloodline has been introduced into the Nara clan.

Other Clan Members

During the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, another Nara was assigned to the
Third Division
. He aided Ensui with his techniques in order to trap the
reincarnated
 shinobi.

Leaders

Shikaku Nara
: Former Head

Shikamaru Nara
: Current Head

Trivia





The simplified version of the clan's symbol.



The jackets worn by Shikamaru and his son Shikadai were emblazoned with a rudimentary version of their clan's symbol.

The clan's full symbol was shown much earlier than those of the Akimichi and Yamanaka, being seen on Shikamaru's shirt in a flashback in
chapter 190
.

Nara, Nara, Japan
 was the capital of Japan in the eighth century, and is well known for its
tame deer
 a relation as to how the Nara look after deer.

"Ino", "Shika" and "Chō" are the names of three cards needed for a highly prized trick of "Inoshikachō" in the
Hanafuda
.

Nara have a sensory link with their shadows and do not necessarily have to see their target to know that the person has made contact with their shadow.

All the Nara men tie their hair in a ponytail, suggesting that it is a customary fashion in the clan.

Hakuto
 and
Shigezane
 from
Sunagakure
 were secretly placed alongside the Nara clan as vassals to start a new life by the combined efforts of Fifth
Kazekage

Gaara
 and Shikamaru.

References