Naruto, the Genie, and the Three Wishes, Believe It!
 (
『劇場版NARUTO-ナルト-そよ風伝 ナルトと魔神と3つのお願いだってばよ!!』
,
Gekijōban Naruto Soyokazeden – Naruto to Mashin to Mittsu no Onegai 'ttebayo!!
,
literally meaning:
 Naruto: Gentle Breeze Chronicles the Film: Naruto, the Jinni, and the Three Wishes 'ttebayo!!)  is the seventh
Naruto
 OVA. This OVA aired in movie theatres along with
Naruto Shippūden the Movie: The Lost Tower
.

The ani-manga version of The Lost Tower, released in Japan on July 16, 2010, includes an ani-manga version of this OVA.

Synopsis

On their day off,
Team 7
 is enjoying a barbecue on the beach. When Kakashi goes off to buy a drink at a vending machine,
Naruto
 finds a strange bottle and opens it. A
Genie
 comes out of the bottle and claims that he will grant them three wishes, but no one believes him. Naruto asks for a barbecue for ten people, and the Genie grants his wish. Realising that the Genie was telling the truth, they told him to wait a bit while they decided their next wish. The Genie complies and tells them that was their second wish, and now they only have one left.

While the Genie waits in the bottle, Naruto,
Sakura
 , and
Sasuke
 begin to argue because Naruto has already wasted two wishes while Sakura secretly wishes that Sasuke would fall in love with her. As a result, Naruto takes the bottle and runs off, claiming he will be Hokage. Both Sasuke and Sakura go after him, along with
Ino
,
Kiba
,
Shino
, and
Team Guy
, who had seen everything.

They all fight for the bottle (except for Choji, who was still eating) until
Hinata
 catches it and claims that she will break it to stop them from fighting. However, she is stopped by
Shikamaru
's
Shadow Imitation Technique
. Shikamaru suggests they wish for something that will please everyone. The Genie reappears and asks what the final wish will be. Naruto begins to say his wish, but is interrupted when Kakashi, who came back from buying his drink, asks for some change. The Genie grants his wish and gives him a few coins before disappearing. As Kakashi asks what happened, the genin look at the sky with dismay, except for Hinata and
Chōji
, who are still eating his barbecue and don't have a wish.