Naruto: Clash of Ninja Revolution
 is the third North American instalment of the
Clash of Ninja
 series.

Gameplay

Naruto: Clash of Ninja Revolution
 covers the events of the second half of the
Chūnin Exams
 to the end of the
Search for Tsunade
. This game uses the same gameplay engine as
Gekitō Ninja Taisen! EX
, only with the pre-timeskip touches instead. The game utilises the Wii Remote and Nunchuk for basic attacks and for special attacks that require specific movements from both items. The classic controller and GameCube controller are also compatible with the game. Also from
EX
 are the plane switches with stage jumping and the objects to take cover in, along with the original ninja tool deflect function with the nunchuck. Also new are the original second special attacks characters have received since
Gekitō Ninja Taisen! 3
.

Most of the content, such as screens and music come as a reprisal of
Naruto: Gekitō Ninja Taisen! 3
. Unlike the aforementioned instalment, this game contains Kisame, who was not a playable character in the Japanese series until
Naruto: Gekitō Ninja Taisen! 4
. Many other characters who appeared in
Gekitō Ninja Taisen! 3
, the Japanese GameCube counterpart to
Clash of Ninja Revolution
, do not appear in the game, and some stages from
Gekitō Ninja Taisen! EX
 also appear in America for the first time. Also, this is the first non-Shippūden
Clash of Ninja
 game to be exposed to the Wii's high graphics, something Japan has not yet received.

Another notable difference between this game and
Gekitō Ninja Taisen! 3
 are the additions added since
Gekitō Ninja Taisen! 4,
 which is both the guard gauge system and the throw-button Chakra Cancel system. However, the roster in comparison to
Gekitō Ninja Taisen! 3
, despite the addition of Kisame, is notably reduced, along with the removal of 3-man cell mode and overall reduced stage amount mainly due to the addition of stage transitions. Even then, as aforementioned, the engine is roughly the same as the
EX
 games, even down to the physics compared to the original
Gekitō Ninja Taisen! 3
. Also unlike
3
,
Revolution
's HUD now includes guard metre dots above the character's HP bars, a quality-of-life added in since
Gekitō Ninja Taisen! 4
.

A new addition are 3 motion controlled mini games.

Playable Characters

Naruto Uzumaki
 (can enter a
Nine-Tails
 form)

Sasuke Uchiha
 (can activate
Sharingan
)

Sakura Haruno

Kakashi Hatake
 (can activate
Sharingan
)

Rock Lee
 (can activate
Eight Gates
)

Tenten

Neji Hyūga

Might Guy
 (can activate
Eight Gates
)

Ino Yamanaka

Shikamaru Nara

Hinata Hyūga

Shino Aburame

Gaara

Temari

Kankurō

Itachi Uchiha

Kisame Hoshigaki

Tsunade

Orochimaru

Jiraiya

Trivia

When Part 1 Naruto performs from his
Naruto Uzumaki Combo
, he now finally unlike in the GameCube sub-series, performs the correct cross-hand seal for the
Shadow Clone Technique
 throughout the animation and the super flash startup (as opposed to using a tiger hand seal).

When he recovers from his heel drop, he slides backward slightly upon landing instead of landing on his feet normally.

Sasuke when he uses his
Fire Release: Phoenix Sage Fire Technique
, fires a single spread of fireballs as opposed to a stream of multiple ones like in the GameCube games (making it function like how it works in
EX2
 and
3
 via his Part 2 version's new jumping strong attack).

Many of Kakashi's voice clips during fighting are different from the GameCube versions of the series, and have been changed.

Since Kankurō losing chakra over Karasu being easily hit in the GameCube series was likely a flaw, Karasu has been made harder to flinch as of this instalment.

Also only in this instalment, Kankurō can still control Karasu while suffering from any kind of hitstun, even when airborne.

Gaara was a noticeably strong character, with many of his attacks giving him advantages in battle. As such, he's been drastically nerfed in this series:

If the player interrupts Gaara's forward strong attack with a counter hit, the sand wave that pops up from it will still emerge to hit the player anyway. Since it was an odd thing for many players to see, this has been fixed in this game where properly counter-hitting Gaara will stop the sand wave.

The monster hands during his
Sand Binding Coffin
/
Sand Waterfall Funeral
 special that come out of the ground have smaller size, and reach to the player much slower than in
Clash of Ninja 2
.

When Gaara performs his upward strong attack where he summons sand geysers, it no longer sends a grounded opponent into the air on block, but leaves them on the ground, leaving Gaara more vulnerable to attack.

In this game, both Lee and Guy's up strong attacks are made to be unblockable under most normal circumstances (otherwise they could be blocked in some strange situations).

The sound effect when Orochimaru does a combo that requires him to strike with snakes has been changed due to its harsh tone in GameCube.

The CPU's at Difficulty 4 in this entire series are much more easier to defeat than those of the GameCube series.