This article uses
Creative Commons licensed
 content from
revision 281476018
 of
Wikipedia
's
Naruto: Rise of a Ninja
 article.

The list of authors can be seen in the
page history
 there.

Naruto: Rise of a Ninja
 is an
Xbox 360
-exclusive video game developed by Ubisoft Montreal, making it the first
Naruto
 game to be developed by a non-Japanese company.

Gameplay





A screenshot from the game Naruto (Konoha 3D).



The game itself consists of two major game play modes: one-on-one fighting and RPG, where
Konoha
 serves as a main hub to access various missions players can go on. The main story mode alternates between these two modes, and takes place from the beginning of the series to the end of the
Konoha Crush
 (episodes 01-80 of the anime), with included side quests . It features game play similar to that of a 3D platformer, like jumping acrobatically from rooftop to rooftop or racing through checkpoints, as well as having one-on-one brawls much like the
Naruto: Clash of Ninja
 series. Like with most
Naruto
 games, it features cel-shaded graphics.The game also allows online versus multiplayer via Xbox Live, titled "The Forest of Death", enabling you to play with your friends. You start off choosing a character, and defeating other opponents to rank up and eventually gain points to complete the exam. If the player is defeated, they must begin from the bottom of the table all over again, but the points are still kept. Offline play, and two-player versus mode are also available.

The game supports downloadable content. Chōji, Temari, the Third Hokage and Jiraiya come bundled in packs of two: Chōji and Temari, Third Hokage and Jiraiya. Each bundle also comes with two new maps/arenas. Each pack is 500 Microsoft Points which is $6.25. Shikamaru is free, but you must be registered to Ubisoft and you link your Xbox Live to Ubisoft account. Downloadable content also adds an additional achievement for each character played in the Forest of Death. Currently, the game has 37 achievements with a maximum of 1075 gamer points.

Story

Based almost directly on the first three arcs of the anime, the story follows the trials and tribulations of a young boy,
Naruto Uzumaki
, from his time at the
Academy
 to his big blow-out battle with
Gaara
.

Playable Characters

Naruto Uzumaki
 (
Nine-Tailed Fox
 Mode)

Sasuke Uchiha
 (
Curse Mark
 Mode)

Kakashi Hatake
 (
Sharingan
 Mode)

Sakura Haruno
 (Maiden's Anger Mode)

Gaara
 (Brutal Sand Mode)

Haku
 (Ice Mode)

Zabuza Momochi
 (Demon Mode)

Orochimaru
 (White Snake Mode)

Kiba Inuzuka
 (Food Pills Mode)

Rock Lee
 (
Eight Gates
 Mode)

Neji Hyūga
 (
Byakugan
 Mode)

Downloadable Characters

Shikamaru Nara
 (Strategy Mode)

Chōji Akimichi
 (Berserker Rage Mode)

Temari
 (Heavenly Fan Dance Mode)

Third Hokage
 (
Hokage
 Mode)

Jiraiya
 (Sannin Mode)

Battles

Naruto vs.
Mizuki

Naruto vs. Sakura

Naruto vs. Sasuke

Naruto vs. Kakashi

Naruto vs. Zabuza

Naruto vs. Haku

Naruto vs Kidnapper (
Iruka
 in disguise)

Naruto vs. Orochimaru

Naruto (
Five Pronged Seal
) vs. Kiba

Naruto vs. Neji

Naruto vs. Gaara

Bosses

Shukaku

Reception

The game has met generally good reviews from critics. Its Metacritic aggregate score is 78, indicating "generally favourable reviews".
 One main example of praise is from IGN, awarding the game 8.4/10 and stating 'the first great Naruto game' (despite giving praise to past games in the Naruto franchise). In addition to winning the best fighting game award at E3 2007, it was also praised for having a simple but fun and fast fighting engine. The game though was slightly criticised for giving players an abridged story, and many characters not being in the story as well.

Problems

Exclusive Shikamaru download (which was free) caused games to freeze when hitting a trip wire or log, while also rendering the Japanese voicepack non-functional. These have been solved through a patch in the Third Hokage and Jiraiya download (both trial and full version).

According to sources, Rock Lee's finishing move (Primary Lotus) was removed due to unequal results in both online and offline play, but Ubisoft has said it will restore this in a free firmware patch.

In addition, there are bugs within the achievements for the two new downloadable characters packs, meaning players cannot achieve the 60G promised when completing the exam with these four characters.

Trivia

For some unknown reason, many characters such as the Third Hokage,
Jiraiya
,
Konohamaru
,
Moegi
 and
Iruka
's voice actors were replaced in this game. On the other hand, Jiraiya and the Third Hokage received their original voice actors in the sequel,
Naruto: The Broken Bond
.

In story mode,
Mizuki
 has a character model but he is not a playable character.

In story mode,
Iruka
 has a character model and you can fight him in fighting challenge mode, but is not a playable character.

In story mode, numerous characters from the original
Naruto
 anime appeared in the anime cutscenes of the game.

This game, along with it's successor
Naruto: The Broken Bond
, are not made in Japan, but instead made in Canada.

References

External links

Official Site