Naruto: The Cross Roads
 (
ザ・クロスローズ
,
Za Kurosurōzu
) is the sixth
Naruto
 OVA. It uses the same CGI graphics as
Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Storm
 and was released during
Naruto: Shippūden
. This OVA premièred at the Jump Festa Anime Tour 2009.

Synopsis

Between the
Prologue — Land of Waves
 and
Chūnin Exams
 arcs, Team 7 is waiting for Kakashi, who is late again, to start a new mission (B-ranked as Sasuke states). The team sets off while Kakashi explains that
Genmai
 from the
Inaho Village
 is missing, who has vanished in the hills. While doing reconnaissance,
Kakashi Hatake
 finds Genmai, who is being attacked by a dog, but gets stuck in a
trap
. The rest of the team got ambushed by a
group
 of
missing-nin
 and their leader,
Kajika
, who have orders from
Orochimaru
 to test
Sasuke
's strength and abilities. While
Yamame
 attacks Sasuke and
Iwana
 attacks
Naruto
,
Sakura
 is kidnapped by Kajika. Naruto and Sasuke then go in pursuit, with Sasuke rather waiting for Kakashi to get back, but Naruto doesn't want to lose sight of Sakura. The following conversation between the missing-nin shows that their true purpose is testing Sasuke's strength for
Orochimaru
. An unseen fight takes place between Yamame, Iwana, Naruto and Sasuke, in which Naruto and Sasuke get the upper-hand and win. Disguised, they go to Kajika, only to be soon detected to be imposters. Feeling Kajika is far more skilled in both
ninjutsu
 and
taijutsu
 than they are, Sasuke begins to doubt whether victory is possible. When the two finally start working together, using Sasuke's
Sharingan
 to see Kajika's chakra and Naruto's attacks, they misguide Kajika in thinking they are just attacking him with
kunai
, while they where actually setting up a trap with
wire strings
, capturing him. Kajika hears Orochimaru's voice, telling him he served his purpose and then begins to talk to Sasuke. After Orochimaru releases Kajika from his control, his body explodes, resulting in his death. Elsewhere, he and
Kabuto
 discuss about Sasuke. Team 7 returns Genmai to his son.