This article is about the prequel one-shot.  For other uses, see
Naruto Gaiden
.

Naruto Gaiden: Whirlwind in the Vortex
 (
NARUTO -ナルト- 外伝 ~渦の中のつむじ風~
,
Naruto Gaiden: Uzu no Naka no Tsumujikaze
,
Viz:
 Naruto: The Whorl Within the Spiral) is a spin-off prequel
one-shot
 of the original
Naruto
 manga, featuring
Minato Namikaze
, who was the winner of the
NARUTOP99
 poll. The most popular character of the poll would have their own one-shot manga written and illustrated by
Masashi Kishimoto
, the creator of
Naruto
. It was released in
Weekly Shōnen Jump
 #33 (2023), which had a cover date of July 31, 2023.

Summary

As
Rōshi
 and
Han
 are about to launch their
Tailed Beast Balls
,
Jiraiya
 orders
Minato
 to
warp
 their
team
 to safety, who is amazed at the
tailed beasts
' power. In
Konoha
,
Kushina
 jolts awake from a nightmare where the
Nine-Tails
 goaded her into freeing it. She laments how she can't be alone with Minato due to her bodyguards watching her every step. Excited at the idea of a training session with him, Kushina's hopes are shattered when he tells her that he intends to train elsewhere for a new technique, and she can't follow him outside the
sealing barrier
. Remembering her
predecessor
's words to her, Kushina decides to defy the orders and
binds
 her guards, who comment on how her chains are getting stronger as she grows older. Once out of the sealing barrier, the Nine-Tails laughs at its
jinchūriki
's foolishness.

Jiraiya assists Minato into creating his new
jutsu
, but their efforts prove fruitless as the
chakra
 is too unstable. Jiraiya talks about the link between one's chakra rotation and the way one's hair grows, but Minato has two hair whorls which go both ways. A flash of inspiration allows Minato to finally stabilise the new jutsu, but his naming sense leaves to be desired. After Jiraiya leaves on a mission, Minato is joined by Kushina who pretends the
Third Hokage
 gave her permission to get outside the barrier, and apologises for yelling at him. Minato says he's who should apologise, because he wanted to complete the new technique for her.

The Nine-Tails forces its chakra out of Kushina's body, triggering the
Tailed Beast Transformation
 and wounding Minato in the process. The fox goads its host into unsealing it, but its attempts are restrained by a sealing jutsu cast from Minato. Thinking back to Mito's words and hearing Minato affirm his love for her, Kushina unleashes her chains on the tailed beast, managing to regain consciousness. Enraged by the two's efforts, the Nine-Tails forces Kushina to undergo Version 2, piercing Minato in the abdomen, but he manages to enter into Kushina's mind world and attack the fox with his new technique, assisted by her.

Minato wakes up in the
hospital
, with
Tsunade
, Jiraiya, and Kushina at his side. Kushina decides to think of a name for his new jutsu, as he developed it for her, and brings him to the same place Mito showed her long ago. As they go up the staircase, Kushina suggests
Rasengan
, looking at his face lining up with those on the
Hokage Rock
.