The popularity of
Naruto
 has resulted in references being made to it in other series.

Adventure Time

In
The Chamber of Frozen Blades
 of
Adventure Time
, Jake and Finn use hand signs to create ninja techniques such as one which resembles the function of the
Shadow Clone Technique
.

Amphibia

In the series finale episode
The Hardest Thing
 of Amphibia, Marcy Wu has a keychain resembling Sakura Haruno.

Ask Orange

In the episode "Pear Hates Babies, someone asks Orange if he can beat Naruto in arm wrestling.

Assassination Classroom

As
Korosensei
 preps
Terasaka
 for the mid-term, he wears a Konoha forehead protector to symbolise that he is "weak in multiple subjects", similar to how Naruto was in the Academy. He once again wears the same forehead protector to prep Terasaka for the end-of-term finals. In the anime, he uses Naruto's catchphrase "
dattebayo
".

Attack the Block

In the movie
Attack the Block
, the main character tells two kids to "go home, stay inside and watch Naruto!".

Baby Daddy

In some episodes, figurines of Naruto, Kurama,
Pain
 and
Zetsu
 can be seen on a shelf in the background.

Bakuman

Naruto

volume 43
 appears on the cover of
Bakuman

volume 2
, tucked under
Shūjin
's arm.

BanG Dream! Girls Band Party!

GO!!!
 is one of the songs.

Batman

In Batman and Robin 1 (2023), Damian Wayne has a notebook with Naruto and Kakashi on the cover.

Beethoven's Christmas Adventure

In Mason's room, posters of
Minato Namikaze
 and
Team 10
, a
Shikamaru
 plush, several Naruto manga volumes and action figures of part 1
Naruto
 and
Sasuke
 can be seen.

Ben 10

Children shown on a
Ben 10

Christmas-themed episode
 greatly resemble the
Konohamaru Army Corps
.

In one episode, a girl can be seen wearing Sakura's dress.

In the original series, there is a villain named Clancy, who has similar powers to
Shino Aburame
.

In the sequel show, Ben 10: Alien Force, Ben is voiced by Sasuke's English voice actor, Yuri Lowenthal, this is referenced in Yuri Lowenthal's cameo videos, where he holds up figures of Sasuke and Ben (sometimes both) and pretends to make them say things with their voices.

In the Ben 10 reboot episode "Adrenaland Jr", Ben and Kevin shout their names out similar to Naruto and Sasuke.

Also in the reboot, there is a villain named Toothache, who has powers similar to Kimimaro's.

Binbougami Ga

In episode 3 of
Binbougami Ga
, Ichiko is wearing a ninja costume along with a Konoha forehead protector.

Boy Pick-Up: The Movie

Boy Basag wears an
Obito Uchiha
 costume.

Chip 'N Dale Rescue Rangers (2022)

In one scene, a character wears Naruto's outfit and a Konohagakure forehead protector.

Danville 2nd Ward Young Men

In the Halloween 2011 episode, a kid can be seen wearing a Naruto costume.

Daybreak

In one episode, action figures of Shippūden Naruto, Hokage Naruto,
Boruto
, Minato and Shippūden
Sakura
 can be seen on a shelf in the background.

Deadpool

In the Marvel comic
Deadpool
, Deadpool references Naruto's speech on his dream of gaining respect from his village and wanting to become
Hokage
.

Demon Prince Poro's Diaries

In the first chapter of
Demon Prince Poro's Diaries
, Poro Kurokami is seen reading a book with Naruto Uzumaki on the cover, as well as having a Naruto figure on his desk.

Dofus Arena

In the comic
Dofus Arena
 Tome 4, Tobi's mask can be seen among many other cultural references. Also, there is a man wearing a Konoha forehead protector who also resembles
Neji
.

Donkey Kong

In Donkey Konga 2, Seishun Kyousouku is a selectable track.

The opening "
GO
" is a selectable track in Donkey Konga 3.

Dragon Ball

In the video game, Dragon Ball Z: Battle of Z, if the game was preordered, the player is able to download Goku as a Super Saiyan in Naruto's
Sage Mode
 cloak.

Dragon Ball Z Abridged

In episode 44 of
Dragon Ball Z Abridged
, Goku is dreaming about becoming a ninja and a pirate (referencing
One Piece
), also, in the latest episode, Goku says that he had a ninja dream and a pirate dream. In episode 45 of the series, Goku says that the ninja dream he was having ended, referencing the then-recent end to the manga.

EmKay

Emkay's video "r/Crappyoffbrands | they serious?!?" features a bunch of knock off products from around the world. One of them being a set of 6 knock off
Naruto
 action figures of Hokage Naruto, Minato, Madara, Sasuke, Deidara and Gaara.

Feels Good Man

A Naruto poster was seen in a photo of a NEET's room.

Football 2 Street

In episode 3 of season 2 "Les Irréductibles" of
Foot 2 Rue
, several characters from Japanese anime make an appearance. Among other things, one can see the field presence of Naruto, Sasuke, and Sakura from Team 7.

Fortnite

On November 16th 2021, Fortnite debuted a limited time collaboration with Naruto: Shippūden, which had the original four members of
Team 7
 for sale as playable skins, alongside a range of items.

On June 23, 2022, Fortnite added playable skins based on Itachi Uchiha, Hinata Hyūga, Gaara and Orochimaru.

Gintama

In
Gintama
, there are multiple references of
Naruto
 along with other popular anime.

In Episode 25, Gintoki quotes Itachi.

In episode 44, when the Go-Ninja team assemble at night before they infiltrate the enemy's base to rescue Elizabeth, there is a logo that resembles the
Naruto: Shippūden
 logo. There is also a scene that features Gintoki dressed as
Kakashi
.

In episode 86, Naruto appears on a bag.

In episode 100, Gintoki mentions "Beruto", a clear parody of Naruto. Beruto can also be seen on the back of the Shonen Jump magazine Gintoki is reading. Additionally, Beruto sounds similar to
Boruto
, although the Boruto series came out in 2017. Later in the episode, Gintoki mentions a parody of the
Akatsuki
, called "Bakazuki", which features a parody of the meeting in chapter 238, and features characters that resemble
Tobi
,
Zetsu
 and
Kisame
.

Another episode has Gintoki reading a magazine with artwork from
Naruto Shippūden the Movie
 on the cover, and asks if the main character will really die, a reference to the movie, where Naruto "dies".

In episode 152, the team notices a narutomaki stuck on a shogun's eye, because of this, the characters make jokes about the Naruto manga series, like the Shadow Clone Jutsu, the Storm games and the Sharingan.

One episode features the "World
Chūnin
 Hunter Hero Exam".

Hello Kitty

In 2021, Hot Topic, Shueisha and Sanrio teamed up to do a crossover of Hello Kitty and Naruto, featuring Hello Kitty as Naruto, My Melody as Sakura, Pocaccho as Kakashi, Kuromi as Gaara, Chococat as Sasuke, Badtz-Maru as Itachi, Pom Pom Purin as Rock Lee and Keroppi as Jiraiya.

Helluva Boss

In the episode "Seeing Stars", an animal like painting of Naruto can be seen on a street artist's stand.

High School of the Dead

In the episode Streets of the DEAD, the Noruto poster in Kota's room is a parody of Naruto.

Himouto! Umaru-chan

In episode 2 of
Himouto! Umaru-chan
, on the cover of Umaru's magazine Shonen Jumpu, a parody version of Naruto is seen. Also in episode 8 of the omake,
Himouto! Umaru-chanS
, Sylphynford is dressed up in a parody version of Naruto and uses his catchphrase "
dattebayo
".

Hulk

In Hulk: Broken Worlds volume 2,
Manda
 can be seen.

Hyrule Warriors: Age of Calamity

The hand signs that Impa uses during her special attack, while some of them are based on real ninja hand signs, they include some hand signs directly from the
Naruto
 series.

I've Fallen For You

The main characters go to a cosplay party as Sasuke and Sakura.

Jujutsu Kaisen

In episode 6 tilted
After the Rain
 of the anime, when Itadori learns about cursed techniques, he is disappointed that he cannot perform things like the Kamehameha and the Rasengan.

Kirby

The episode of Kirby: Right Back At Ya titled "Ninja Binge" may be a homage to Naruto. The episode revolves around a ninja named "Benikage" who failed all of his classes and he is extremely stubborn but a very hard worker, similar to Naruto's personality. Additionally, he was caught trying to steal a scroll at night and later having to battle an evil ninja to get it back, similar to the start of the Naruto series.

In Kirby's Return To Dreamland and the games coming out after it, Ninja Kirby now wears a similar headband to the ones from
Hoshigakure
.

Lil Uzi Vert

One of his songs is titled "Sasuke".

In his song "New Patek", it has the verses "Throw up gang signs, Naruto (uh), Put metal in my nose like
Pain
 (uh)".

Lost

In the episode Ji Yeon, during the toy store scene, an Akatsuki cloak, the Mattel action figures of Naruto, Sasuke, Rock Lee, Neji and Zabuza, Kakashi's gloves, a Sasuke bag, a toy
Fūma Shuriken
, a large Naruto statue, and Sasori's hat can be seen.

Lupe Fiasco

His song "Mural" features the lyrics "
Sound village
,
Leaf village
 / Wolf spirit,
magic spells
".

MAD

In MAD Season 1, Episode 19:
HOPS / Naru210,
 the sketch Naru210 parodies Naruto.

MAD Kids also did a magazine cover featuring
Naruto slipping on a banana peel
.

A German issue of MAD
 featured a parody of Naruto called "Narutod" and the cover featured a drawing of Naruto next to a parody of the
Sexy Technique
.

Maitre Gims

In the song
Ceci N'est Pas Un Clip #05 - Sharingan
, it bases off of the
Sharingan
 which included
Itachi
's,
Sasuke
's, and
Izuna
's.

Mamma Mia! Here We Go Again

In the Tokyo scene, a sign featuring Team 7 from Shippūden and a sign featuring Boruto,
Sarada
 and
Mitsuki
 can be seen.

Marvel's Moon Girl and Devil Dinosaur

In the pilot episode, students greatly resembling Naruto, Sasuke and Sakura make cameo in class.

Me and Roboco

The cover of volume 12 of the manga parodies the cover of Naruto volume 5.

Ms. Marvel

One panel features 3 ninja that wear headbands with a maple leaf on them, similar to the headbands from the Naruto series. One of the ninjas also has a outfit similar to Zabuza's.

OK K.O.! Let's Be Heroes

A Naruto keychain can be seen on a characters phone. Enid also wears a similar outfit to Naruto's post-timeskip outfit.

Ol' Kainry

In the song
La Faucheuse
, it makes a reference to
Kakashi
's mask in one of its lyrics. In another song called
On se pavanne
, it makes a reference to Naruto's
Sexy Technique
 and
Shikamaru
's ability to plan out attacks.

One Piece

To celebrate the finale of
Naruto
, the
cover art
 of
One Piece'
s
chapter 766
 references
Naruto
, and in the week's author comments section,
Oda
 thanked
Kishimoto
 for being his friend and rival.

Our Shining Days

A group of Naruto cosplayers can be seen at the ACG Festival.

Pawo

Young Dorjee wears a backpack with
Itachi Uchiha
 on it.

Pokémon

In
Pokémon Tower Defense
, there is a character named "Maruto" and uses Naruto's catchphrase "dattebayo". He also owns a Ninetales, referencing
Kurama
.

In
Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, Platinum, Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl
, the gym leader Volkner bears a strong resemblance to Minato, even using electric-type Pokemon similar to Minato's techniques.

In
Pokémon White 2,
 an old man says "Art is Explosions", which is a reference to
Deidara
's catchphrase.

In the Pokemon Sun and Moon episode "Drawn With The Wind", there is a character named Charlie Charma. He has a similar headband to the ones found in the Naruto series, eyes and leg weights similar to Rock Lee's, Whiskers similar to Naruto's and he ends his sentences with "datte yo".

The character Pikala owns a Pikachu named Bolt, who has the same name and haircut as Boruto.

Prodigy

A character at the homecoming afterparty has a Naruto cosplay.

Raruto

Raruto
 is a Spanish webcomic which parodies
Naruto
.

Rayman Raving Rabbids 2

In the Japanese version of the game, you can obtain Naruto's part 1 outfit.

Rick and Morty

Summer and Morty's child is named Naruto.

Robot Chicken

In the episode "May Cause Lucid Murder Dreams", there is a sketch titled "Naruto's Hardest Test" that parodies Naruto, and features modified Bandai Anime Heroes action figures of Minato, Itachi and Rock Lee. However, Naruto, Sasuke and Kakashi were the only ones to not be modified.

Rogue Legacy

In the video games
Rogue Legacy
, there is a class named "Shinobi/Hokage". It depicts them wearing a forehead protector and allows them to use the
Body Replacement Technique
.

Scott Pilgrim Vs The World

Gideon uses hand seals to summon his katana.

Scissor Seven

In the English dub of Scissor Seven, Captain Jack refers to Seven as a "Naruto background character".

Ski Mask The Slump God

In his song "Catch Me Outside", it uses the lyrics "Naruto nine-tailed fox coat fur".

Spider-Man

In Amazing Spider-Man 15 (2022), there is a manga called "Ramen Ninja", which is a parody of
Naruto
.

South Park

In episode 277 of "South Park", Sheila Broflovski was looking through Ike's search history and finds Naruto on there along with Yuri!!! on Ice and Crunchyroll.

In the game "South Park: The Fractured But Whole", Craig duplicates himself by announcing "Bunshin no Jutsu!".

In the episode "Help, My Teenager Hates Me!", a Naruto poster can be seen in a teenager's room.

Space Dandy

In episode 14 of
Space Dandy
, there is an alternate universe version of Dandy named "Ninja Dandy".

Spy X Family

In episode 10 of the anime, Damian Desmond and his friends pretend to perform the
Shadow Clone Technique
, even shouting out the move's name just like how Naruto does in the series.

Steven Universe

In "
Chille Tid
" of
Steven Universe
, the shape that Lapis' water-wings take after they move over her torso, and the way that she appears to sink into the ground in Malachite's Realm, resembles the way
Zetsu
 travels underground.

In the episode "Garnet's Universe", Garnet drops her weighted hair similar to how Rock Lee drops his leg weights.

StrikeForce Kitty: Last Stand

The game has unlockable costumes based off Naruto, Sasuke and Kakashi.

Sunday Night Football

During the January 8, 2023 game, Jamaal Williams introduces himself as "First swag
Kazekage
, leader of the hidden village of the den", while wearing a forehead protector.

Super Sons

In the DC Comics
Super Sons issue 1,
page 20, a poster of Naruto and Goku is shown in Jon's bedroom representing his obsession with anime.

Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles

In 2023, BoxLunch, Shueisha and Nickelodeon teamed up to do a crossover of Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles and Naruto, featuring Michelangelo as Naruto, Donatello as Kakashi, Raphael as Gaara, and Leonardo as Sasuke.

The Amazing World Of Gumball

In the 153rd episode titled
The Fury
, Yuki asked Nicole during their face-off which school of fighting taught her, she references three names: Hokuto, Mr. Miyagi and Konoha.

The Art of Murder

In the pilot episode of the Art of Murder, a ninja character named Sousuke, a fictional ninja character from an anime show who only speaks in Japanese. He is the mixed version of Naruto and Sasuke.

Another scene where Sousuke mentioned its the spin-off series,
Bosuke: Sousuke Next Generation
, referencing
Boruto: Naruto Next Generation
.

The Big Bang Theory

In one episode, a part 1 Sasuke shirt and a poster of part 2 Naruto using Rasengan can be seen.

The Boondocks

In Season 3 episode 5 of "Stinkmeaner 3: The Hateocracy", a fight occurs in which particular move sets are inspired by Naruto.

The Boss Baby: Family Business

In one scene, the ninja babies use a similar move to the Shadow Clone Technique.

The Cleveland Show

In ""Hot Cocoa Bang Bang"" of
The Cleveland Show
, a kid is dressed up like Naruto along with other popular characters.

The Karate Kid (2010)

In the park fight scene, a Naruto balloon can be seen in the background.

The Picture of Everything

The part 1 version of Naruto can be seen in The Picture of Everything, underneath Falkor from The Neverending Story

The Simpsons

In "
Treehouse of Horror XXV
" of
The Simpsons
, different alternate reality versions of the Simpsons appear. In one of these versions, the Simpson family are each dressed up as a different manga and anime characters;
Bart
 dresses up as
Naruto
.

A drawing in a old Nickelodeon magazine featured Bart Simpson hanging out with
Sakura
, and another issue had a cover featuring Naruto and Lisa Simpson (with Naruto's image being traced from
Path of the Ninja
) and featured a drawing that depicted Naruto teaching Lisa karate.

In the comic
Simpsons Super Spectacular
 #16 Naruto appears alongside Luffy in the story "Bartmanga: Featuring Robartman!".

Tooth Fairy

In one scene, figurines of
Kimimaro
,
Zabuza
 and
Tobi
 can be seen in a kid's bedroom along with a figurine of Goku from Dragon Ball Z.

Transformice

In
Transformice
,
Hokage
's hat appears in the
shop
.

Transformers: Revenge of the  Fallen

A poster featuring Naruto, Sasuke, Sakura, Kakashi, Neji, Gaara, Temari, Kankurō, Gamabunta and Hinata is hanging on the computer dorm's wall.

Turning Red

During the scene where the aunties transform into red pandas to try to save Mei's mom, one of them does a Naruto style running pose before turning into a red panda. This was intentional, as the movie's creator is a huge anime fan. The fight between Mei and her Mom is a reference to the fight between Naruto and Kurama in
Naruto: Shippuden
.

Yu-Gi-Oh!

In one episode, Ino, Shikamaru and Chōji can be seen in the audience.

The guy on the "Crystal Slicer" card resembles Sasuke.

The boy on the "Rebirth Judgement" card resembles
Sasori
.

Zero Days

A Naruto poster is shown, and the NSA informant mentions Naruto action figures.