Naruto Shippūden: Gekitō Ninja Taisen EX 2
 is the sixth instalment of the
Gekitō Ninja Taisen
 series.

Gameplay

A majority of the gameplay is the same, only that some characters gain new special attacks, with most of them being new down specials.

A
hand sign
 system is also added where players can hold down a dodge button with the throw button together to enter a special stance, the player then has to move the Wii Remote and Nunchuk in unison in three directions in succession to gain special effects. Either they can gain back some chakra, boost their attack power with super armour effects at the cost of chakra or for some can gain access to a special transformation aside from using their down special to transform. However, should one attempt hand signs in the stance will groan or slouch in disappointment if they are too low on chakra or mess up on their hand signs. This stance is also only exclusive to Wii Remote+Nuchuk combo users.

Gameplay improvements from the previous instalment,
Naruto Shippūden: Gekitō Ninja Taisen! EX
, include obstacles that do damage on contact and the option to turn obstacles off completely.
Naruto Uzumaki
 and Sasuke Uchiha also appear in their original forms as well as their
Shippūden
 forms.

Playable Characters

Naruto Uzumaki
 (can enter a
One-Tailed
 form, also playable with a pre-timeskip outfit)

Sasuke Uchiha
 (can activate
Sharingan
, also playable with a pre-timeskip outfit)

Sai

Sakura Haruno

Kakashi Hatake
 (can activate
Sharingan
)

Yamato

Rock Lee
 (can activate
Eight Gates
)

Neji Hyūga

Tenten

Might Guy

Kiba Inuzuka

Shino Aburame

Hinata Hyūga

Shikamaru Nara

Chōji Akimichi

Asuma Sarutobi

Jiraiya

Tsunade

Orochimaru

Kabuto Yakushi

Gaara

Kankurō

Temari

Itachi Uchiha

Kisame Hoshigaki

Deidara

Sasori
 (also playable while in
Hiruko
)

Trivia

In this game, the size of both Part 1 and Part 2 Sasuke are notably scaled down compared to the size of their models redone for the US-exclusive
Naruto: Clash of Ninja Revolution
, as their US-exclusive Wii game models have their sizes match up to their Part 2 versions' models in regards to their heights and bulk.

As of this game in the Wii games, Jiraiya's back strong (Needle Jizo) is able to somehow to recover faster than normal if released as of any frame upon draining his chakra. As a result in some scenarios, he is able to loop it via OTG hit or back-turned hit like so until he runs out of chakra or if the victim gets K.O.ed.