Naruto's many friends, allies, and mentors.



Due to his friendly nature, tenacity, empathy, unique charisma, and his ability to change people,
Naruto Uzumaki
 has built many relationships throughout the series that have defined him and others.

Kurama





Naruto and Kurama's antagonistic relationship.



A relationship that shaped Naruto's character, albeit unintentionally, was with the
tailed beast
 that was sealed within him since the day he was born,
Kurama
 — the Nine-Tails. Because he was the fox's
jinchūriki
, Naruto was treated as an outcast by most of the villagers and his peers until he was twelve years old. Despite learning the truth of his nature during his fight with
Mizuki
, it was thanks to Iruka's kindness that convinced Naruto to continue trying to gain the villagers' acknowledgement.

Kurama held intense hatred and distrust toward humans, for they had treated the fox and its tailed beast brethren nothing more than monsters worthy of fear and disdain, as well as powerful weapons to exploit, for centuries. Ever since its sealing within Naruto, Kurama, believing that he wouldn't be any different, plotted to use the young
shinobi
's dependence on its power to break free from the seal. Their relationship soon became more hostile when Naruto discovered that he could potentially kill his friends while under the fox's influence, which made him resolve to rely on his power and find other ways to get stronger. However, after he defeated Pain, Naruto realised that even though he had mastered
Sage Mode
, he could still not avoid using Kurama's power and sought Killer B, the jinchūriki of
Gyūki
, to learn how to
control
 it. With his mother and B's help, Naruto managed to best Kurama in combat and take most of its chakra.





The change in dynamics between Naruto and Kurama.



During the start of the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, Kurama tried to instil doubt into Naruto by telling him that shouldering the hatred of an entire war was futile and reminding him of his failure to save Sasuke from revenge, but Naruto refuted with brimming confidence that regardless of the odds, he would still find a way to do something about them, before the young shinobi promised to resolve the fox's hatred someday as well.
 Despite audibly reproaching him for making such a claim, Kurama nevertheless had developed a level of respect for Naruto and his determination, even noting that he was different from the humans it had previously encountered, therefore allowing Naruto to utilise the
Nine-Tails Chakra Mode
 without consequence. Kurama then intentionally aided Naruto when the
reincarnated
 Madara was fighting against one of Naruto's
shadow clones
 and the
Fourth Division
, saying it would rather choose Naruto than being manipulated by the Uchiha again.
 Afterwards, Naruto told
Son Gokū
 of his desire to save the tailed beasts and admitted that he was envious of Killer B's dynamic relationship with Gyūki and wanted the same with Kurama.
 Kurama — having witnessed all of the hardships and deeds Naruto had in his life — stood by to see if he could truly aid its brethren through his actions.
 When Naruto successfully freed Son Gokū from Obito's control, Kurama finally became convinced of Naruto's word and offered to meld its chakra with his as a coalition, to which the young shinobi then removed the
seal
 that restrained it and happily acknowledged the fox as his teammate and a member of
Konohagakure
.

Within that short space of time, the two had begun to express trust in one another, even to the point where Naruto would allow Kurama to
take control
 of his body and switch back without conflict.
 Later on, when Obito tried to instil doubt into Naruto as an attempt to weaken his resolve, Kurama asked Naruto to switch once again long enough to reveal that it was sealed within Naruto to give the boy the strength to stop him while proclaiming itself as Naruto's friend, along with the confidence in its jinchūriki's ability to carry on the legacy Minato and Jiraiya left him.
 When Naruto fell into despair over Neji's death, Kurama, with Hinata's aid, managed to break him out of it by reminding him over how his parents died for him as Neji did without a second thought over how his life has an unshakable bond.

Later, despite the Yang half of Kurama being freed from its seal within Naruto, the fox willingly complied to Hagoromo's request for it to return to Naruto, showing that it had grown to like his companionship, despite refusing to admit it to others. Even more, Kurama had made such peace with the arrangement that it could casually sleep inside Naruto.
 Over time, it came to care for Naruto's family, finding them entertaining to be around and viewing it as his duty to look after them.
 Kurama's compassion for Naruto was further shown by its willingness to reveal a last-ditch power of
Baryon Mode
 despite the high risk of the form potentially killing the fox, likewise hiding the power's danger to Kurama's life when knowing Naruto would not risk using the power otherwise. After using the form for too long and Kurama began to fade, the fox decided to make a final peace with Naruto. Naruto simply said despite the events that lead to them being united, he held no ill-will for Kurama, but rather was grateful to know the tailed beast. Upon the fox's life finally ending, Naruto mournfully reached for his friend, not wanting to lose Kurama.

Three years later, upon resurrecting in its new
Jinchūriki
,
Himawari Uzumaki
, Kurama retained the same sense of loyalty obtained with Naruto as before, quickly becoming partners with Naruto's daughter.

Family

Minato Namikaze






Minato placing his trust in Naruto.



Despite not knowing that the Fourth
Hokage

Minato Namikaze
 was his father, Naruto had expressed the utmost respect for him. Though angry at Minato's chakra imprint at first once learning of their relationship and that it was his father who sealed Kurama inside of him, Naruto quickly got over his anger and expressed pride in being the Fourth Hokage's son, which is aided by Minato expressing remorse for the act.

On his way to the Fourth Shinobi World War, Naruto defended his parents with vigour when the
Fourth Raikage
 insulted Minato on how he failed as the "
Children of the Prophecy
" upon his death.
 Naruto also explained to the Raikage that despite the fact his parents died very soon after he was born, their love and faith in him is what made him strong.

Naruto would later fight alongside his
reincarnated
 father against the
Ten-Tails
 during the war where Minato not only became proud of how far his son had come as a shinobi but was also reminded so much of how he was fighting alongside Kushina, moving him to tears of joy.
 After Kaguya's defeat, Minato and the spirits of the other deceased Kage summoned back Naruto's team, the tailed beasts, and an unconscious Madara from the princess's dimension. Before departing, Minato had one final conversation with Naruto, congratulating him for finally ending the war and wished him a happy birthday, with Naruto promising to do his best to follow the teachings Kushina and Minato left him.

Kushina Uzumaki






Kushina thanks her son before fading into the afterlife.



During his training to control Kurama's power, Naruto tearfully embraced his mother
Kushina Uzumaki
 when her chakra imprint came to his aid. Naruto found his mother is similar to him in terms of personality, and also complimented on her red hair as "beautiful", saying that it would have been good if he had straight, red hair. After learning how his parents met each other, and how they died in what actually occurred during Kurama's attack on Konoha, Naruto told his mother that he could finally understand what a parent's love felt like and that he didn't blame them, instead of feeling glad to be their son.

After his father's passing in Fourth Shinobi World War, Naruto explained to Hagoromo how his mother Kushina was a truly good person compared to the heartless Kaguya.

Two years after the war, Naruto found a teal and light blue striped scarf knitted by his mother and began treasuring and wearing it to honour her memory. However, this unknowingly interfered with Hinata's attempts to give Naruto a red scarf she knitted to confess her feelings for him. He would later stop wearing his mother's scarf in Hinata's presence after realising his feelings for Hinata.

Jiraiya






Naruto with his mentor and godfather, Jiraiya.



Unarguably one of the closest relationships Naruto ever had,
Jiraiya
 indirectly played a role in his life even before he was born, as he was a mentor to both Minato and Nagato due to being foretold that a student under him would be destined for greatness. He was also the one who gave Naruto his name, with the boy named after the protagonist in his "
The Tale of the Utterly Gutsy Shinobi
" novel, thus making him Naruto's godfather. Because of
Orochimaru
's defection, and learning of the
Akatsuki
's existence, Jiraiya was forced to leave the village to spy on the organisation and was unable to take care of his godson during the first twelve years of his life. Jiraiya would only meet Naruto years later during the boy's first Chūnin Exam, being labelled "Perverted Hermit" (
エロ仙人
,
Ero-sennin
,
English TV:
 Pervy Sage).

While ultimately more perverted than Naruto, Jiraiya had many similarities to his godson from a desire to bring world peace to an unrequited affection for their respective female teammates. Since their meeting, Jiraiya and Naruto became close, with the latter holding him in high regard. After learning of Jiraiya's death at the hands of Pain, Naruto fell into a deep depression and mourned him. Jiraiya's death was the first time Naruto ever felt the pain of losing a loved one. After being moved to tears from reading "The Tale of the Utterly Gutsy Shinobi", Naruto confronts Jiraiya's killer and the true identity of Pain, his fellow pupil Nagato. Meeting Nagato face to face, Naruto vowed to seek vengeance against him, and he would kill him to avenge Jiraiya. However, realising this was similar to the path Sasuke took, Naruto later declared that what he inherited from Jiraiya will help him bring peace in this world, and that if Jiraiya was willing to place his faith in him, then Naruto was ready to believe in himself and stated that he would find peace for the world. Naruto also made a memorial grave in honour of Jiraiya and vowed to find a path to peace for the world, telling Jiraiya to watch him from the other world. In the Fourth Shinobi World War, when Obito and Naruto argued about dreams, Naruto answered back that he thought of Jiraiya as a hero. Upon bidding farewell to his father's spirit at the war's conclusion, Naruto would tell Minato that while Jiraiya was just as eccentric as Kushina had warned him as a baby, of all the shinobi he ever met, Jiraiya was the one he respected the most.

When Naruto saw
Koji Kashin
 fight, he found his fighting style to be greatly similar to Jiraiya's, and felt concerned for him during his fight against Jigen, unaware of Koji's nature as Jiraiya's clone.

Hinata Hyūga






Naruto's first encounter with Hinata.



In their childhood days, Naruto first met
Hinata Hyūga
 while they were preparing to enrol at the
Academy
.
 Despite not knowing her, Naruto refused to let the three bullies insult Hinata and came to her defence, but he was outnumbered and knocked unconscious, and the bullies damaged his red scarf. When he awoke, Hinata thanked Naruto for helping her and returned his scarf to him, but he let her keep it.
 Ever since then, Hinata developed a strong admiration towards Naruto. Because Hinata saw how he was being treated as an outcast by almost everyone in the village, she found herself able to relate with his desire to be acknowledged. She was also amazed that despite having nothing and no one to rely on, Naruto never gave up in believing he could become something great like Hokage. Inspired by his determination, Hinata decided to try her best to become strong, so she could be acknowledged as well and adopted Naruto's
nindō
 of never giving up. Her admiration for Naruto eventually grew into love.

Because of his socially ostracised childhood, Naruto was unaware that Hinata had feelings for him and even considered her "weird" because of her shyness around him. However, his impression towards her began to change for the better during their first
Chūnin Exams
, when he witnessed Hinata's unyielding resolve to change herself and be acknowledged, and had cheered for her in her match against Neji after watching her cousin's attempt at verbally abusing her into giving up.
 After Hinata lost the fight, an enraged Naruto vowed with her blood to defeat Neji in her place.
 One month later, when Naruto revealed to Hinata his growing doubts on the upcoming match and his abilities, she reassured him that he never gave up because he always had the strength to overcome his failures. Naruto gratefully thanked Hinata for bringing him out of his depression, and he said to her that even though he had thought of her as "weird", he liked a person like her.
 As Naruto departed to train with Jiraiya, Hinata watched him leave but was unable to bring herself to say goodbye to him. As he left, she vowed to become stronger, and to work as hard as he did.






Hinata intervenes to protect Naruto.



During
Pain
's
assault
 on Konoha, Hinata immediately came into the fray after she saw Naruto being
pinned down
 by the Akatsuki leader. Worried about her safety, Naruto demanded Hinata to stay away from the fight. Still, despite knowing that she stood no chance against Pain, Hinata refused to leave and confessed her love and willingness to protect Naruto, even at the cost of her own life. Left speechless upon hearing her confession, Naruto instantly erupted into a rage after he saw Pain stabbing Hinata, allowing Kurama to take control and continue the battle.
 Later, once Kurama was suppressed, Naruto became very distressed at the thought that he might have killed Hinata and the villagers while he was under the fox's influence, but was in tears of relief upon learning that she and the others were still alive.
 After Sakura healed her wounds, Hinata shed tears of joy and relief over the news that Naruto had defeated Pain, and he safely returned to the village and was later seen smiling as everyone celebrated Naruto's victory.






Hinata encouraging Naruto after Neji's death.



During the Fourth Shinobi World War, after one of Naruto's shadow clones helped Hinata and the
Second Division
 defeat a group of
White Zetsu clones
, she began to lament the fact that though she wanted to protect Naruto, he ended up saving her instead. However, Naruto, due to the Nine-Tails' chakra abilities, saw Hinata feeling down on herself and reassured her that she was strong, recounting her coming to his aid against Pain, to which she silently thanked him for.
 Later on, when Obito attempted to shatter Naruto's belief in himself after Neji sacrificed own his life to protect both Naruto and Hinata from the
Ten-Tails
, Hinata snapped Naruto out of it by telling him that if his life is connected with everyone who shared his beliefs and was willing to sacrifice themselves for him, he should not blame himself, give in to despair and have Neji die in vain, reminding him of their shared nindō. With her and Kurama's aid, Naruto's self-confidence was restored, and he took Hinata's hand, thanking her for staying by his side before transferring Kurama's chakra into her and the rest of the Shinobi Alliance.

Two years after the war, as the
Rinne Festival
 was approaching, Hinata decided to confess her feelings for Naruto by knitting a scarf for him, a replacement for the one he gave her when they were children. Although she completed the scarf, Hinata encountered problems such as her shyness and the new-found competition with the many other
female admirers
 for Naruto's affections. When Hinata finally attempted to give it to him, she saw Naruto wearing a scarf his late mother had knitted for him, which made her sadly back down as she thought another girl gave it. As she ran off and cried over the scarf alone, she was approached by
Toneri Ōtsutsuki
, who captured her with his
puppets
 and tried escaping Konoha with her, but Naruto defeated the dolls and rescued her; the scarf she made was ripped in the battle.






Naruto grows closer to Hinata.



When Toneri kidnapped
Hanabi
, Naruto, Hinata, Sakura, Sai, and Shikamaru were deployed on the mission to rescue her. Later, while the team got caught in the
Gatekeeper
's
genjutsu
 that dredges up old memories, the red scarf — which Hinata was in the process of repairing — got loose from her bag and wrapped around Naruto, sharing her memories and corresponding feelings with him. Left utterly bewildered after witnessing how long Hinata had loved him and realising that she was the first person to acknowledge and support him, even before Iruka,
 Naruto became fiercely protective of Hinata, even bashful in her presence. When the team arrived in what they later discovered was the
Moon
's interior and explored the landscape, Naruto later saw Hinata knitting the red scarf and realised it was for him, to which he stopped wearing his mother's scarf. As he spent time interacting with Hinata, Naruto began to experience a special kind of happiness he had never felt before and realise that her being was irreplaceable and essential to him. Eventually, in their moment alone, Naruto confessed that he was in love with her, which left Hinata speechless.






Naruto and Hinata's first kiss.



However, driven to save her captured sister and destroy the
Tenseigan
, Hinata, after giving the red scarf to Naruto, left with Toneri and pretended to accept his offer, much to Naruto's shock and confusion when she said goodbye to him. As Naruto was chasing after them, he was greatly saddened because Hinata did not deny Toneri's statement that they would be married. After Toneri attacked Naruto by
draining
 almost all of his chakra, he was left near death, and the scarf was destroyed. After recovering three days later, the broken-hearted Naruto fell into a state of great depression and came very close to giving up on everything. Still, it wasn't until Sakura helped him realise how deep and unwavering Hinata's feelings for him truly were that his mental strength returned, and he set out to rescue her. Once he reunited with Hinata, she apologised to Naruto for her earlier act, but he replied that he understood why she had to do it, and he should be the one to apologise. As Naruto and Hinata regrouped with the rest of the team (including Hanabi) after the two
destroyed
 the Tenseigan, Naruto then happily took a small remnant of Hinata's replacement scarf that was callously ripped by Toneri, saying that even in its ruined state, he would cherish it forever, which left her on the brink of tears of joy by his kind gesture.






Naruto and Hinata's new family.



After Naruto defeated Toneri and saved the shinobi world, Naruto then reiterated his love for Hinata and stated that he wanted to be with her for the rest of his life, much to her happiness, and the two had their first kiss upon returning to Earth. After several months of dating, Naruto and Hinata got married and eventually had two children together.
 This newfound sense of peace enabled him to be more willing to make healthier lifestyle choices such as eating vegetables and reeling in his impulsiveness, something others have had little success with doing. When Naruto became Hokage, Hinata remained supportive of him and his increased responsibilities. She tries to keep Boruto and Himawari happy despite his frequent absences, even though she also yearned for her husband to be home more often. After
Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki
's attack, Naruto's schedule lessened, and he was able to spend more time at home, making Hinata happier once more.

With Naruto's schedule lessened after the events of the
Versus Momoshiki Arc
, he and Hinata spent much more time together. He was even able to give himself a leave of absence so he could guard
Kawaki
 in the safety of his own home, allowing him to spend much more time with his wife and his family. He tried using Hinata's cooking as a way to tempt Kawaki to stay at the Uzumaki household.

Children






Naruto and Hinata with their children.



Naruto's first child is a boy named
Boruto
, and his second child is a girl named
Himawari
. Naruto is shown to be a loving and doting parent towards his children, often playing with them whenever he has free time.

Although Boruto loved his father and was overjoyed when they spend time together, their relationship had been strained ever since Naruto became the Seventh Hokage. Because of the job's many responsibilities that prevented Naruto from being around all the time, it led Boruto feeling neglected and becoming resentful towards the Hokage title, declaring it as only fit for those with no loved ones. Boruto's methods of dealing with that were numerous; he pulled pranks to get his father's attention, strived to surpass him to devalue his legacy, and feigned disinterest whenever Naruto tried to connect with him. When he was caught cheating and disqualified in the
Chūnin Exams
 for using the
Kote
, Boruto blamed his father for how he turned out because he never had the time to lecture him properly. Eventually, after Boruto was exposed to the complications of his father's life, the brutal nature of the ninja world, and witnessed how hard work can make a respectable shinobi, he finally understood and forgave his father's busy schedule, respected the Hokage title, and stopped trying to take the easy options in life.
Similarly, Naruto realised he had prioritised his duties as Hokage over the well-being of his family, preferring to do as much work as possible by himself rather than having his advisers relieve some of the burdens. He also accepted that his negligence was indeed at least partly to blame for the way Boruto had turned out. Afterward, Naruto's and Boruto's relationship with each other improved significantly to the point where Naruto was home more and Boruto wished for his father to do his best at work.

In contrast to her older brother, Himawari was shown to be very mature for her young age, as she was quite patient, supportive, and understanding with her often-absent father and his Hokage duties. When Himawari had become sick, Naruto dropped everything at the office to come home and help take care of her, much to Boruto's shock. However, she also missed him very much and was sad when he sent a shadow clone as a stand-in for her birthday party, and got worried when he disappeared during his fight with Momoshiki and
Kinshiki Ōtsutsuki
.
 After Naruto started being home more, Himawari was overjoyed that they would get to spend more time together. During 'Family Day', despite being exhausted from work in the Hokage office, he was able to spend the entire day with Himawari. The two travelled around Konoha, and Himawari was able to get reacquainted with many of Naruto's old friends like
Kiba Inuzuka
,
Akamaru
,
Ino Yamanaka
, and
Tenten
, all on the hunt for a special Kurama doll after Naruto had accidentally got her a Shukaku one. In the end, Himawari was thrilled that she got to spend so much time with her father.

When
Kawaki
 was brought to the village, learning of the boy's struggles and seeing the pain of loneliness he had to endure, Naruto came to sympathise from his own hard childhood. Despite the other officials not trusting Kawaki, Naruto decided to let the boy live with him with his family. Kawaki was cold and even rude, but Naruto remained determine to reach the boy and rekindle his compassion. Over time, Naruto's constant care and Kawaki learning of their kindred nature allowed him to open up to Naruto. Eventually, Kawaki came to see Naruto as a positive father-figure, and asked to learn ninjutsu from him. Naruto also came to see Kawaki as a surrogate son. However, this deep sense of loyalty to Naruto ultimately became all-consuming for Kawaki. So desperate to protect Naruto, he decided to kill all that is a threat to Naruto, including Boruto after the reemergence Momoshiki in him. Kawaki acknowledges that Naruto will not be grateful, nor forgive him, for this action, and is fully willing to accept whatever punishment Naruto chooses on him after killing Boruto, simply content knowing Naruto is safe.

In-Laws

Naruto had a very close relationship with Hinata's side of the family after marrying her. Naruto's relationship with the usual stoic
Hiashi Hyūga
 was very cordial, even warm, with Naruto calling his father-in-law "father" whenever addressing him. Hiashi also expressed concern over Naruto's workload as Hokage, commenting on how exhausted he was all the time.

Hanabi Hyūga
 is also close to Naruto, and was overjoyed whenever he brought her
nephew
 and
niece
 to the
Hyūga Clan
 compound for a visit. But as time went on and Naruto's workload increased, she got more and more angry-much like Boruto was before, that Naruto didn't spend enough time with his family. It came to the point that, even after his workload had decreased following the
Ōtsutsuki Clan
 attack on Konoha, that she tried to convince Hinata to move back in with the clan until Naruto sorted out his priorities.

Konoha Ninja

The villagers of Konoha as a whole had a drastic change in the manner that they view Naruto: moving from what they viewed as a menace and looming threat because of Kurama sealed within him, to a citizen/hero of Konoha whom they genuinely care about and would even go as far as to risk their own lives to ensure that he was safe.
 Two years after ending the war, with Naruto becoming a hero to the entire world, he has gained much fame and popularity throughout the land, regularly receiving gifts from the villagers and women swooning over him, including visitors who came from different parts of the world just to see him.

Iruka Umino






Iruka bonding with Naruto.



As it was because of his parents' death by Kurama's attack that he suffered a miserable childhood,
Iruka Umino
 initially found it awkward to become a teacher to Naruto, before eventually deciding to be strict with the boy so he could work harder and reach his potential. In time, learning from Hiruzen that the boy acted out with his antics to be acknowledged, just as he had in his youth, Iruka understood Naruto's loneliness and went out of his way to connect with the boy outside the classroom — treating Naruto like a younger brother. As a result, after Naruto learned of his nature as a jinchūriki and Kurama's role in the deaths of his teacher's parents, Iruka confidently believed in Naruto as a shinobi of their village and nothing else. Ultimately, Naruto began looking to Iruka as a father-figure, as he noted to Sasuke at the
Valley of the End
.

Even after Naruto graduated, Iruka still treated his former student at the
Ramen Ichiraku
 whenever he returned from a mission. Though times like that allowed him an opportunity to see how Naruto was developing as a shinobi, Iruka still tended to worry about him. During the Fourth Shinobi World War, Iruka was among the shinobi assigned to keep an unaware Naruto safe from the army Obito amassed to take him and Killer B by force. But once Naruto learned of the war, Iruka attempted to talk him out participating in the fight until Naruto reminded him of the confidence he had in him years ago, staging an apparent capture of him while secretly giving his former student a message to come back alive. Upon reading the letter, Naruto swallowed it to keep his sensei's words close to him. Killer B assured Iruka that he and his teachings were with Naruto in his heart.

Two years after the war, when Naruto was getting married to Hinata, he had asked Iruka to be his 'father' for the ceremony, bringing Iruka to tears.
 Years later, Iruka watched on proudly as Naruto finally achieved his lifelong dream of becoming Hokage. Iruka also notes that Naruto's son Boruto tends to ironically act like his father in pulling pranks for attention from Naruto.

Hiruzen Sarutobi






Naruto and Hiruzen.



The Hokage kept his parents' identity a secret and gave him his mother's last name. After Minato and Kushina's death, Hiruzen looked after him.
 He asked the village never to reveal anything about Kurama to Naruto or the children. Naruto was inspired by the Hokage, originally due to the respect they received, including Hiruzen, and hoped to become Hokage himself someday. He would often get under Hiruzen's skin by the disturbances he would make by his pranks or the use of the Sexy Technique, the latter of which often caused Hiruzen to suffer from nosebleeds due to being a closet pervert. Despite their unique relationship, Naruto deeply cared for Hiruzen and was very saddened by his sudden death, to which he paid his respects to the Hokage at the ceremony for the sacrifices he made for the village. Likewise, he was very verbal about his anger towards people insulting Hiruzen's memory. Thanks to Hiruzen's teachings and values, Naruto would continue to help and protect the village after his death.

During the Fourth Great Shinobi War, when the
reincarnated
 Hiruzen saved Naruto from nearly dying to the
Ten-Tails
 in its tree form, a half-conscious Naruto sincerely thanked Hiruzen, happy to see him again.

After assuming office as the Seventh Hokage, Naruto would adopt Hiruzen's mindset that regardless of blood relation or not, the people of the village were his family; a mindset he would constantly relay to the
next

generation
.

Konohamaru Sarutobi






Naruto and Konohamaru.



Even though he and Naruto had a rough start when they first met,
Konohamaru Sarutobi
 is the second person to acknowledge Naruto as he is. This view was due to Naruto not seeing Konohamaru as simply Hiruzen's grandson like everyone else in Konoha originally did. Though he pretended to be Naruto's rival for the position of succeeding Hokage, Konohamaru has a deep and understanding of friendship with him. Having trained under Naruto to learn the
Sexy Technique
, Konohamaru devised his variations of the unorthodox transformation technique. At some point, Naruto would go on further to teach him the
Rasengan
, further establishing both a brotherly and mentor-pupil relationship.
 His continued closeness to Naruto was even reflected in Naruto's future family, as his children came to view Konohamaru as a big brother. Eventually, Konohamaru would begin to train Naruto's son Boruto as his jōnin teacher and would later teach Boruto the Rasengan out of honour for Naruto (and the Fourth Hokage).

Team 7

Sasuke Uchiha






Naruto and Sasuke in their Academy days.



Naruto's relationship with
Sasuke Uchiha
 was the highlight of the majority of his life. Their relationship was complicated, especially due to the circumstances of their ancestors' feud, dating back to the beginning of Shinobi; Naruto and Sasuke are the latest reincarnations of
Asura
 and
Indra Ōtsutsuki
, the sons of
Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki
, the Sage of Six Paths.

When the two were both Academy students, Naruto wanted to befriend Sasuke, knowing that he too was
alone
. However, when Sasuke proved to be better than him at everything, gaining popularity and admiration, Naruto grew jealous and made it his goal to surpass him. Ever since then, Naruto saw him as his rival and was bent to prove himself as an equal before both youths were made members of
Team 7
. Even though he thought of Naruto as a loser, Sasuke understood the pain of being an orphan well enough, to the point of taking offence to Sakura insulting and blaming Naruto's stupidity on him not having parents.
 As they continued to work together as teammates, Naruto came to view Sasuke as a brother. In turn, Sasuke gained respect for Naruto, and saw him as a dear friend and rival until the events of the Chūnin Exams. When he noticed that Naruto was beginning to surpass him and that he was nowhere near strong enough to defeat Itachi, Sasuke defected from Konoha to train under Orochimaru, believing it to be the only way he could become strong enough to avenge his clan.

Even after failing to
stop Sasuke from leaving
, Naruto was determined to bring him back as a promise to Sakura, despite Sasuke's willing defection and eventual corruption. When Naruto came to understand both the nature of the cycle of hatred and the reason behind Sasuke's malice, his desire to save him grew even stronger.
 It became so immense that Naruto was willing to take physical abuse from
Kumo
-nin rather than sell Sasuke out, and begged the
Fourth Raikage
, who had branded Sasuke an international criminal following his attack on Kumogakure, to pardon Sasuke for his crimes against his village.

Naruto would later learn that Obito turned Sasuke even further against Konoha by revealing to him the truth behind Itachi's actions. According to him, Naruto and Sasuke were mortal enemies, whose respective embodiments of the
Will of Fire
 and the
Curse of Hatred
 were fated to clash. It was then that Naruto revealed to Sakura that his wish to bring Sasuke back to Konoha was no longer fuelled by the promise he made to her, but rather his own desire to save his best friend. Finding Sasuke and intending to bare his friend's hatred, Naruto concluded that reasoning him out of destroying Konoha was no longer viable and believed that they would most likely die during their fated conflict. However, during the Fourth Shinobi World War, Sasuke renounced his intent to destroy Konoha and joined forces with his former teammates against Madara and the Ten-Tails. The dynamics between the two had not changed, and their innate rivalry still caused Naruto and Sasuke to challenge each other, even more so when Sasuke announced his desire to become Hokage, and with both of them noticing their respective improvements and new abilities.






Naruto and Sasuke's bitter rivalry comes to an end.



Later, when both Naruto and Sasuke met Hagoromo and learning of their status as reincarnations, Naruto declared that even though they were not real brothers, he was confident that together they could change the world. Sasuke, meanwhile, acknowledged Naruto as his best and only friend, but would have to kill him to "erase the past". After they successfully
sealed
 Kaguya, Sasuke revealed his intent to begin a revolution and noted that Naruto was the only one capable of stopping him. Hagoromo somberly believed this was a result of the constant fighting between his sons, but Naruto was quick to state he was not Asura and Sasuke was not Indra. He also revealed his intent to finally end the brothers' and, by proxy, his and Sasuke's feud. The two engaged in an arduous battle, with both teens losing their dominant arms as a result. Lying together, both too injured to move, Naruto explained that even after everything they had put each other through, he still considered Sasuke, his best friend. Brought to tears by Naruto's resolve, Sasuke forfeited the fight, realising that he was always envious of Naruto, just like he had been of Itachi. With their friendship restored, the two were able to undo the Infinite Tsukuyomi together and finally end the feud of Asura and Indra. After the war, Naruto used his influence as a hero to absolve Sasuke of his status as an international criminal. As Sasuke once again left the village to travel the world, Naruto came to greet him and returned the forehead protector Sasuke had discarded following their first battle, with the surrogate brothers promising to one day skirmish again.

Two years later, Sasuke briefly returned to Konoha to stop a meteor from destroying it, stating that only he could protect the village in Naruto's absence.

After both men had started families, Naruto, now the Seventh Hokage, would tell
Sasuke's daughter
 that the two were still rivals and that despite Sasuke's shortcomings as a person and father, he was a terrific shinobi that he could see a lot of him in her.
 The relationship between the two men has become much more friendly, allowing them to converse casually, make jokes and entrust the safety of their respective children to each other.
 Upon hearing the (false) confirmation that Karin is Sarada's mother, Naruto became very angry with Sasuke, thinking he hand not been faithful to Sakura. After hearing Sasuke and Sakura confirm Sarada is their child, Naruto was relieved. Sasuke eventually comes to train Naruto's son as his disciple, while Naruto inspires Sarada to one day become a Hokage.

Sakura Haruno

Back in the Academy days, Naruto had a crush on
Sakura Haruno
, who considered Naruto an annoyance because of his constant antics. She even went as far as to insult Naruto for being an orphan, a statement that offended Sasuke when she shared this belief with him. Sasuke, in turn, admonished Sakura for saying that, which led Sakura to realise that she had gone too far and decided to be more considerate towards Naruto from then on.
 Shortly after being assigned to Team 7, Sakura eventually began to see Naruto in a new light due to his constant dedication to his friends, and in due time made good on her resolution to be nicer to Naruto, as shown when she explained the mechanism behind the
Tree Climbing Practice
 during their mission in the
Land of Waves
.
 She was even willing to forfeit her entry into the Chūnin Exams upon realising that Naruto would not have been able to pass the first test, which would have resulted in him being stuck as a
genin
, thus ending his dream to become Hokage.
 Later, when she learned from Sasuke that Naruto was the one who saved her from Gaara during the
Konoha Crush
, she was surprised, but grateful. When Sasuke defected from Konoha, Naruto, aware of her feelings for their former teammate, promised Sakura that he would do everything in his power to bring Sasuke back to her.
 Despite Naruto's failure, Sakura was inspired by his determination to fulfil his promise, and became Tsunade's apprentice to help Naruto retrieve Sasuke.

Even after Naruto returned from his training with Jiraiya after two-and-a-half years, both he and Sakura displayed that their friendship had not suffered during the time apart and continued to grow, bearing significant resemblances to those of their
Sannin
 masters. Shortly after learning that the Akatsuki was targeting Naruto because he was a jinchūriki, Sakura became protective of him and continuously tried to repay the many things he has done for her. During the
Five Kage Summit
, Sai, remembering his conversation with Naruto about why he hadn't told Sakura of his feelings for her, informed Sakura that the strain of making her happy and fulfilling his promise to her to save Sasuke has been a source of Naruto's pain. Shocked, she felt guilty for asking too much from Naruto and decided to stop Sasuke from sinking any lower by herself.
 Sakura tried to release Naruto from his promise by telling him that she loved him and not Sasuke any more, but Naruto and the others present immediately knew that she was lying, and Naruto shocked her when he said that he hates people who lie to themselves.
 Naruto also adamantly refused to believe Sakura would kill Sasuke because he knew how much she loved him, which was proven correct. After Naruto saved Sakura from being killed by Sasuke and voiced his resolve that he would shoulder Sasuke's hatred as a friend even if both were to die, she was touched by Naruto's determination once more, for he had again given her hope that there may still be a happy ending for Team 7.

When the Fourth Shinobi World War reached its climax, Sakura resolved to aid Naruto in fighting against Obito, Madara, and the Ten-Tails, stating that he didn't need to carry the burden alone and that everyone would be there to help him.
 Her understanding and care of Naruto was strengthened when he exclaimed how not having any friends was the most painful thing to him, to the point where she raised the morale of the entire Shinobi Alliance.
 Later, after Yang-Kurama was extracted from Naruto, Sakura expressed great concern when he was in critical condition and used her
medical ninjutsu
 to keep her friend alive, swearing she would not let him die when he was close to achieving his goal in becoming Hokage.






Sakura reassures Naruto of Hinata's feelings for him.



Two years after the war, Sakura was deployed on the same
team
 as Naruto. After Hinata tricked Naruto so that she could destroy the Tenseigan and save her sister Hanabi, who had been captured by
Toneri Ōtsutsuki
, the traumatised Naruto was nearly killed when his chakra was nearly completely drained. Sakura exhausted all her chakra, trying to heal him for three days straight, causing her to collapse afterward. Sakura then reassured Naruto of Hinata's feelings for him, even noting that they are more genuine compared to his crush on Sakura, as it never went deeper than wanting to win her over as another means of competing with Sasuke, whom she has feelings for. Sometime after they succeeded their mission to save Hinata's sister
Hanabi
, Sakura was one of the many guests that attended Naruto and Hinata's wedding.
 Even many years into adulthood, Naruto and Sakura remained close friends to the point where Naruto's children refer to Sakura as "Aunt Sakura", and Sakura's daughter admires Naruto and intends to become Hokage herself.
 After becoming Hokage, Naruto's trust in Sakura's medical skills increased so much that at some point he made her head of the medical department.

Kakashi Hatake






Naruto alongside his sensei, Kakashi.



Kakashi Hatake
 is the leader of Team 7, the squad Naruto was assigned to after becoming a
genin
, and one of his first mentors. Initially seeing Naruto as a slacker who didn't understand camaraderie, Kakashi soon came to understand that Naruto's unpredictability was his greatest asset and also came to believe in the young man he labelled Konoha's "Show-Off, Number One Unpredictable, Noisy Ninja". In turn, Naruto would cherish the lessons he learned from Kakashi about friendship and teamwork. After he came back from training with Jiraiya, Kakashi would train Naruto in
nature transformation
 and acknowledged that he was the only one who could surpass his sensei, the
Fourth Hokage
, and realised not long after that Naruto had surpassed him as well. With Kakashi's help, Naruto was able to create and master the
Wind Release: Rasenshuriken
, which would become one of the most powerful techniques in his arsenal. When Naruto learned of Kakashi's death at the hands of
Pain
, he was enraged and later noted Kakashi as one of the many reasons Naruto had to hate him.

Kakashi sees much of his beloved friend Obito inside Naruto and has noted that his ideals and personality were much like the Uchiha's when he was a child. Kakashi also sees some of his sensei (and Naruto's father), Minato Namikaze, in Naruto so much that he momentarily mistook him for the Fourth Hokage upon seeing him in Tailed Beast Mode for the first time. When Kakashi began to falter against Obito, he looked to Naruto for inspiration; seeing him as a representative of the old Obito, Kakashi realised the only way he could protect that was to kill the current Obito. During the battle against Madara, Kakashi took a moment to reflect on the changes of his students, starting with how Naruto went on to become a hero and gain acknowledgement from everyone, but becoming Hokage was still his dream. When the odds were against them as they dealt with Kaguya, Kakashi's trust in Naruto never wavered, and he would exclaim how proud he was of how much Naruto and the team have accomplished.

Years after the war, Kakashi, now the Sixth Hokage, would trust in Naruto's capabilities enough to name him his successor as the Seventh. While officially retired now, Kakashi would still act as an unofficial advisor for Naruto, who would often seek his wisdom for help.

Sai






Sai standing up for Naruto.



When Naruto first met
Sai
, they had a rough start due to Sai's constant criticism and regard of Sasuke as a traitor. However, the two got to understand each other better during their attempt to retrieve Sasuke with Naruto, now considering Sai, a member of Team Kakashi. Inspired by Naruto, noting that he reminded him of his brother
Shin
, Sai works to become a more social person though his attempts can sometimes be awkward. Although Naruto's ties to Sasuke were his overall motivation for bettering himself, Sai began to feel what he believed to be anger towards Sasuke, becoming beyond redemption with all the grief that he caused for Naruto through his crime-riddled vendetta. He soon comes to believe that Sasuke's assassination is what's best for everyone, to the point of misinterpreting Naruto's intentions and unintentionally pushing Sakura towards taking on the suicide mission of dealing with Sasuke by herself. He would come to regret not only handling the situation poorly but also making things more difficult for his teammates, something he believes a true friend should not have done. During the Fourth Shinobi World War, Sai finally reaches a full understanding of friendship before arriving at Naruto's side during his battle with the Ten-Tails.

Shikamaru Nara






Naruto and the other "dead lasts" in the Academy.



Shikamaru Nara
 was a "dead last" student like Naruto during their Academy days. Having noticed the way the other villagers ostracised Naruto, Shikamaru seemed to be one of the first of their peers to see him as more than as a jinchūriki. Furthermore, Shikamaru himself stated that something about Naruto compelled him to follow him. Because of this, outside of the missions that may include them working together, Shikamaru would sometimes hang out with Naruto. Having lost his mentor
Asuma Sarutobi
 prior, Shikamaru played a role in helping Naruto cope with Jiraiya's death. In some ways, Shikamaru had become one of Naruto's best friends and strongest bonds among his male friends.

During the Fourth Shinobi World War, when he was weakened by the
Ten-Tails
, aware that Naruto was always alone, Shikamaru believed Naruto needed an intelligent brother figure, like
Tobirama
 was to
Hashirama
, by his side, and resolved to be Naruto's adviser when he becomes Hokage so he would never have to be alone again. Years after the war, this dream became true, as Shikamaru accompanied Naruto to the Five Kage Summit as both his advisor and personal bodyguard.

Rock Lee






Lee defending Naruto.



Nicknaming him Centipede Brows (
ゲジマユ
,
Gejimayu
,
English TV:
 Bushy Brows), Naruto originally saw
Rock Lee
 as a rival and vice-versa. Lee's victory over Naruto before the Chūnin Exams started was used by the latter as more motivation to get stronger. After he stopped Naruto from attacking Neji for nearly killing Hinata, Lee admitted his resolve to prove his teammate's ideals of a fixed destiny being wrong. Seeing him sharing that same resolve, Lee was willing to let Naruto handle Neji in his stead before his injuries from fighting Gaara. Wanting to help Lee make a full recovery, Naruto brought Tsunade to Konoha in hopes that she could heal him.

During the Fourth Shinobi World War, mourning over Neji's death, Naruto helped give Lee the strength needed to continue fighting and, with his assistance, helped sever Madara's and Obito's connections to the Ten-Tails. To strike the final blow on Obito, Naruto enabled Lee to wield a
ninjutsu
 for the first time by giving him a Rasengan he created. When Lee questioned whether he could do it or not, Naruto shouted encouragement.

Neji Hyūga






Naruto battling Neji.



In the beginning, Naruto developed a strong dislike towards
Neji Hyūga
 due to his ideals that no one can ever change their fate. Furthermore, after Neji left his cousin Hinata in critical condition, Naruto vowed to beat him at their match.
 Their match proved not only a physical battle but also a conflict of ideals with Neji losing on both accounts after revealing his fight with his fate as a branch member of the
Hyūga clan
. When Naruto promised that he would change the fate of the Hyūga clan for him, Neji became a nicer person as he set aside his hatred for the main house, looking after Hinata as he trained with her, and desired to become strong enough to return the favour to Naruto.

Years after, Neji got his chance during the Fourth Shinobi World War when he and Hinata came to Naruto's aid in a plan to defeat the Ten-Tails. However, their defences proved no match for the monster, and Neji took a deathblow from the Ten-Tails meant for Naruto and Hinata. As Naruto pleaded why Neji sacrificed himself, the latter, reminding him of their battle years ago, replied that Naruto called him a genius. Neji realised in his final moments that, like his father before him, he chose to die for those he holds dear.
 Upon Neji's death, Naruto's resolve was shattered even further as Obito openly mocked Naruto for failing to protect his comrades. However, Hinata and Kurama managed to remind Naruto of his life not being just his own nor should he give up on Neji's death so easily. As his confidence was restored, Naruto thanked Hinata and admitted to himself how he'd never be able to thank Neji enough for everything he had done.
 Naruto then told a saddened Lee that he'd keep the real Neji in his heart forever and stated to Obito that Neji's will isn't dead and used his death to increase the morale of the Allied Forces.

After the war ended, Naruto and the rest of Konoha attended Neji's funeral, and Naruto was shown reflecting on the death of his friend.

Some years later, after marrying Hinata, Naruto paid tribute to Neji by naming his firstborn child
Boruto
, whose name means "bolt" while Neji's name means "screw".

Others of Konoha 11

While not as close to him as a few of the others were, Naruto has managed to inspire and befriend the rest of the Konoha 11, with his unyielding loyalty, drive and kindness, such as
Kiba Inuzuka
,
Tenten
, and
Ino Yamanaka
.

Tsunade






Naruto protecting Tsunade.



Naruto's relationship with
Tsunade
 began when he aided Jiraiya in looking for her as an ideal successor to their mentor Hiruzen. Upon finding her, Naruto challenged Tsunade after she said only fools would want to become Hokage, accepting her wager of mastering the
Rasengan
 within a week. Despite her reluctance to become Hokage and lack of faith, Tsunade was loyal to her village and attempted to kill her former teammate Orochimaru before Kabuto used her haemophobia to his advantage. When Naruto defeated Kabuto with a fully mastered Rasengan, Tsunade overcame her phobia to aid him and accepted the position of Fifth Hokage. As a sign of thanks for restoring her faith in their village, Tsunade entrusted Naruto with her
grandfather's necklace
.

Tsunade found Naruto similar to her younger brother
Nawaki
 both in appearance and personality. They are also in fact distantly-related as they are all descended from the
Senju clan
.






Tsunade kisses Naruto's forehead.



Overall, the two have a very strong relationship based on mutual love and respect, one that could almost be called familial, as Naruto is the only person to refer to Tsunade as "grandma". Likewise, he is the only one Tsunade has ever begrudgingly allowed referring to her in such a manner. Tsunade aided Naruto in not only keeping the
Konoha Council
 from restricting his movement but also supporting his search for Sasuke and keeping him out of Konoha's
Bingo Book
. During the Fourth Shinobi World War, Tsunade was the only Kage who argued in favour of Naruto being allowed to fight with them. Though she was outvoted, the other Kage eventually agreed with her resolve. Watching Naruto head off into battle, Tsunade looked on with an expression of nostalgia and pride on her face. A few years after the war, she attended Naruto and Hinata's wedding to congratulate them.
 In the years since, Tsunade continued to remain close to Naruto and his family, as she would constantly scold his son
Boruto
 during the latter's childhood for his mischief.

Sarada Uchiha






Naruto comforting Sarada.



Due to
Sarada
 being Sasuke's daughter and Sasuke being away on a top-secret mission for many years, Naruto cares deeply for Sarada. When Naruto secretly left the village to meet with Sasuke to discuss
a mysterious boy with a Sharingan
, Sarada followed him in the hope of meeting her father for the first time in years. Naruto saved her from being captured by Shin, and, at her insistence, he told her a little about Sasuke from their childhood. Sarada was happy to learn she inherited some good characteristics from him but was disappointed to learn how aloof and stubborn he was. Naruto cheered her up by telling her that while she looked just like Sasuke, her personality mirrored that of Sakura. Naruto comforted Sarada after Sasuke refused to explain his absence, and he assured her that, despite his shortcomings as a person and father, he is one of the best shinobi in the world.






Sarada sharing how she often wonders how her life would be if Naruto was her father.



Naruto was just as shocked as Sarada was when a DNA test erroneously showed that Karin, not Sakura, was her biological mother. He was furthermore shook to see that she had awakened her Sharingan. In Sarada's mental crisis, Naruto convinced her that a real family is made up of love rather than blood, and asked her to think carefully about her bond with her parents, leading Sarada to decide she loved her mother. However, Naruto reacted with relief when it turned out Sakura was Sarada's biological mother, and Sasuke was never unfaithful to Sakura, and he watched on as the Uchiha family reconciled. It would be her admiration for Naruto and his actions that would make Sarada decide to make her dream of becoming Hokage.
 As much as Sarada loves her father and admires his might as a ninja, Sarada has openly confessed that she is jealous of Boruto for having Naruto as a father and wonders what her life would be like if she were Naruto's daughter.

Much like how Sakura and Sasuke were close to his children, Naruto shared a close relationship with Sarada, akin to that between an uncle and his favourite niece, providing her with guidance and firm compassion. Following Naruto's disappearance and Shikamaru becoming the Eighth Hokage, Sarada openly voiced that Naruto is still the Hokage she chooses to model herself after.

Former Konoha Ninja

Kabuto Yakushi






Naruto using Rasengan against Kabuto.



When Naruto first met
Kabuto Yakushi
, he saw him as an ally during the Chūnin Exams. Despite his seeming politeness and helping the younger ninja out, Kabuto has some fixation on him. Eventually, when Naruto later discovered that he worked under Orochimaru, Kabuto became his enemy and defeated him in a fight that nearly killed him, were it not for Tsunade.

However, three years later, Naruto learns that his win inspired Kabuto to undergo the painful process of modifying his body with Orochimaru's DNA after his master's defeat. Stating that Naruto was his inspiration for the risky act, Kabuto handed over a book containing intelligence on the Akatsuki before taking his leave with the hope that he can settle things with Naruto after honing his new abilities and dealing with Sasuke. Though he crossed paths with Kabuto during the
Power arc
, Naruto only faced the shinobi that Kabuto reincarnated for the Fourth Shinobi World War.

Sometime after becoming Hokage, Naruto would develop enough trust in Kabuto to entrust him with caring for the
Shin Uchiha clones
 at the
Konoha Orphanage
.

Itachi Uchiha






Naruto talking to Itachi.



Though he learned from Sasuke that he is looking for his brother,
Itachi Uchiha
, Naruto had no idea that Sasuke intended to kill Itachi for the
downfall of their clan
. By the time Naruto learned of this, he was attacked by Itachi when the
Akatsuki
 sent him and
Kisame Hoshigaki
 to capture him. Naruto was forced to stand by and watch Sasuke's failed attempt of revenge that lead him to defect from Konoha.

When reencountered by Itachi years later, Itachi seemed to express concern over Naruto being alone and asked to talk with him. Naruto refused, intending to capture Itachi and use him to bring Sasuke back to the village. Itachi questioned why Naruto would go so far for Sasuke, and Naruto told him that Sasuke was more of a brother to him than to Itachi. This made Itachi smile, but he still put him under genjutsu. In the genjutsu, Itachi asked Naruto what he would do if Sasuke were to attack the village, and Naruto stated he would save Sasuke and Konoha, although Itachi questioned that he might have to endure hardships, Naruto responded with his
nindō
. Unbeknownst to Naruto, this caused Itachi to acknowledge Naruto and trust him to redeem Sasuke. Taking his leave, Itachi placed
a crow
 containing chakra in Naruto's body with hopes that he may never need to use it.

Eventually, after Itachi's death, the crow is revealed to be embedded with
Shisui Uchiha
's Sharingan with Itachi installing a
command
 that would compel Sasuke to protect Konoha. However, reincarnated and under the control of Kabuto during the Fourth Shinobi World War, tasked alongside Nagato to capture Naruto and
Killer B
, Itachi is forced to sacrifice his gambit to free himself from Kabuto's control and aid Naruto. Upon learning that Naruto was told the truth of the Uchiha Clan Downfall, gaining his respect for the lengths he would go to protect their village and promise not to reveal it to anyone else, Itachi entrusts Sasuke's well-being to Naruto. After Nagato was sealed away, he decided to depart to stop Kabuto and release all the reincarnated shinobi to give their side a fighting chance, leaving Naruto and Killer B to deal with Sasuke and Madara. Naruto, however, declared he would accomplish both tasks on his own. Seeing that Naruto was coming close to becoming arrogant as he did, Itachi told him to put his faith in his comrades as they had put their trust in him. He also said Naruto that being the Hokage means to be able to care for the village while also gaining the full acknowledgement from them beforehand. This changed Naruto's worldview and gave him a new incentive to become Hokage.

Naruto's encounter with the reincarnated Itachi changes both of their outlooks on one another, with Itachi amazed at Naruto's development and Naruto demonstrating to Itachi how one requires comrades in life. Naruto praises Itachi for all he has sacrificed for the village, being one of the few who remembers the Uchiha prodigy as a hero. Itachi, in turn, thinks of Naruto fondly, claiming Sasuke is truly lucky to have Naruto as a friend and referring to Naruto as Itachi's comrade and friend he can entrust Sasuke to.

Some years following the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, Naruto attempted to restore some of Itachi's honour and reputation by revealing to the world that Itachi was responsible for the
reincarnated shinobi
 to have been returned to the
afterlife
 during the war, therefore ultimately assisting the
Allied Shinobi Forces
 in emerging victorious in the war and saving the world, although Naruto continued to keep Itachi's real mission and goals of the massacre a secret to honour his promise to Itachi.

Obito Uchiha






Kakashi points out the similarities between Naruto and Obito's former self.



Similar to Naruto in his youth in many ways before his presumed death during the
Third Shinobi World War
,
Obito Uchiha
 was at first a reflection of the person Naruto would become if he ever gave in to hatred and despair. Though he saw Naruto of no concern, Obito had been the cause of almost everything negative in Naruto's life, having been the one who used the newborn as a hostage, started Kurama's
attack on Konoha
, and indirectly killed his parents. Years later, after adopting the name Tobi, he would reencounter Naruto when he distracted the youth and the rest of the
Eight Man Squad
 from interfering with Sasuke's fight against Itachi. Tobi later appeared before Naruto again, revealing the truth behind the Uchiha Clan Downfall and how he engineered Sasuke's descent into darkness. Though Tobi claimed his actions were for world peace, he embraced being called a monster while proclaiming that Naruto and Sasuke were fated to battle each other.

Though Tobi initially saw Naruto as a means to stimulate Sasuke for his ambitions, the youth's inadvertent thwarting of his plans forced him to plunge the entire shinobi world into war to expedite his projects. Even after Naruto broke his thrall over the tailed beasts he captured, Tobi reiterated his contempt for Naruto and reassured himself that the boy was no match for him. However, as Kurama stated, Naruto was made a jinchūriki to defeat him. Ultimately, it was because of Naruto that Tobi was finally exposed as Obito. While using the Ten-Tails to fight him, Obito realised the similarities between himself and Naruto as he vainly attempted to point out the futility of the youth's struggle against him and Madara. But when Naruto vowed to make sure none of his friends die and expressing disapproval on Obito's nihilistic outlook on life, the Uchiha resolved to put both him and the Allied Shinobi Forces into the same despair he experienced. Though he almost succeeded in breaking Naruto with his guilt over his "inability" to protect Neji, Obito's plan failed when Hinata and Kurama intervened. As a result, now, above his psychological warfare, Naruto told Obito that the only difference between them was that he wanted to keep the bonds he made with his friends.

However, before finally separating Obito from the tailed beasts, Naruto showed a more sympathetic side towards him after experiencing visions of the Uchiha's past — even going as far as to shed tears for Obito's loss.
 Naruto told Obito that if things were different, he would have looked up to him because, like himself, Obito also dreamed of becoming Hokage. To this end, Naruto proclaimed that even though the Uchiha claimed he was no one, there was no sense in Obito hiding any longer and that he was going to tear off his true mask once and for all.
 After forcing the tailed beasts out of Obito's body, Naruto did not let Sasuke give the final blow to the defeated enemy, and even tried to reason with Kakashi so that Obito would be given a chance to atone for his crimes instead of being killed by his old comrade, though it was
Minato
 who stopped him. Ultimately, Naruto succeeded in changing Obito's mindset, and it led Obito to attempt to revive everyone he had killed with the
Outer Path — Samsara of Heavenly Life Technique
. After finding out that Obito had used that technique, and was forced to revive Madara, Naruto displayed a hint of sadness over the fact that Obito was at the time doomed to perish after using the technique, despite the two fighting against each other moments before.






Naruto tries to heal Obito.



Naruto's and Obito's lives crossed once again when the latter stopped Black Zetsu from giving the just stolen Yin-Kurama to Madara, who recently became the Ten-Tails' jinchūriki. Taking a small portion of Shukaku and Gyūki's chakra from Madara and transferring them to the dying Naruto (who had Yang-Kurama extracted from him by Madara), Obito managed to save Naruto's life and allowed him to gain portions of chakra from all the tailed beasts.
 Naruto would later return the favour by using his newfound abilities to save Obito's life. When Obito was revived, Naruto expressed delight that he was alive and despite their history, they both put it aside to stop Kaguya.
 Later, Obito would take
a fatal blow
 for Naruto, leaving Naruto to try and desperately heal him. Obito, knowing his time was up, however, made final amends with Naruto and willed his dream of Hokage to him before dying at Naruto's side. Naruto was enraged when Black Zetsu continued to mock him after his death. In the end, Naruto looked up to Obito for wanting to become Hokage, protect his friends, and make peace, something he had always related to, going so far as to call him "awesome". When sealing Black Zetsu for good, Naruto considers Obito with high esteem, as one of many shinobi who had died to shape the history independent from Black Zetsu's manipulations, After becoming Hokage, Naruto inherited Obito's tendency to help out the elderly in the village, as seen when he carried an old woman across the town on his back and used a clone to carry her groceries.

Non-Konoha Ninja

Zabuza Momochi and Haku






Naruto talking with Haku.



During his first
C-rank
 mission of escorting
Tazuna
 to the
Land of Waves
, Naruto met two mercenary
missing-nin
 hired to kill the elderly carpenter —
Zabuza Momochi
 of the
Seven Ninja Swordsmen of the Mist
 and his ward
Haku
. While he met Zabuza only twice in his life on the battlefield, Naruto unknowingly met Haku between the two fights. Both youths got into a discussion over protecting those who were precious to them, with Naruto gaining his unselfish desire to protect his friends and never to give up. By the time Naruto learned Haku was his enemy during their battle, he was reluctant to take his life before Haku acted on his ideals and sacrificed himself to protect Zabuza after being inflicted with numerous injuries.

When Naruto reprimanded Zabuza for not appreciating Haku's actions after hearing the older shinobi talking ill of Haku's sacrifice, Zabuza, who was hiding his actual feelings of sadness for someone he grew to care about, finally opened his heart and killed his
former employer
, before he died from his wounds. Soon after Zabuza and Haku were buried, Naruto admitted to Kakashi that he liked the two, with his mentor feeling the same way.

When Kabuto brought the pair back to life for the Fourth Shinobi World War, Zabuza and Haku encountered Kakashi, who revealed that Naruto had grown into a fine and well-known shinobi since their deaths, with Kakashi going as far as proclaiming that Zabuza and Haku were largely the reason behind Naruto's growth and expressed joy that both were Naruto's first real opponents.

Nagato and Konan






Konan noting the similarities between Naruto's will and Nagato's initial will.



Like Naruto and his father,
Nagato
 and
Konan
 were apprentices under Jiraiya. However, events resulting from the death of their friend
Yahiko
, particularity at the hands of certain
power-hungry

ninja
, forced Nagato and Konan to stray from their ideals as Obito warped the organisation they created into the current version of the Akatsuki that Naruto was facing. After defeating Pain, one of six corpses that Nagato used as a vessel for his Deva Path ability, Naruto confronted Nagato. Though angry at Nagato for killing their mentor and destroying Konoha, Naruto asked him how, as a fellow student of Jiraiya, could he have strayed so far from their master's teachings. Hoping that Naruto would come to agree with his solution for peace, Nagato told him his past and how he concluded to believe that only pain and suffering would save the world.

Although Naruto understood Nagato's conclusion, he could never accept it as he explains that putting an end to the cycle of hatred is the only way to achieve true peace, something this meeting would ultimately drive Naruto to pursue. Amazed by Naruto's resolve to the point of being spared, Nagato decided to put his faith in the youth as he sacrifices himself to revive everyone he killed during his invasion while wishing for Naruto's dream of peace to become a reality. Konan, showing admiration for Naruto as he touched Nagato's heart along with her own, gave Naruto a bouquet as a sign of a truce and her new undying faith in him. Though she later died by Obito's hand, Konan continued to have faith that Naruto's light can extinguish Obito's darkness even in her final moments. Despite resenting Nagato initially, Naruto's animosity for Nagato fades after sacrificing himself to revive everyone killed in his attack, and he eventually forgives him for his action. Naruto honors the sacrifice Nagato made and the mission he entrusted to Naruto to achieve world peace. When confronting Obito, who mocks Nagato by saying he was easy to manipulate, Naruto actually defends Nagato, arguing that while his methods may have been wrong, he still believed in true peace, demonstrating a sense of respect Naruto felt for Nagato.

After Nagato's
reincarnation
, he was shown to be kinder and carefree to the point he was even willing to start making jokes, something that surprised Naruto. His opinion of Naruto also strengthened after he last saw him, pointing out to Itachi that he wasn't surprised that Naruto was able to advance his control over Kurama's power since they both had studied under the same master. Upon Nagato's sealing, he bid Naruto farewell and how he would leave Naruto to finish the story their master started with a better resolution than before.

Jinchūriki and the Tailed Beasts






Naruto and the other most recent jinchūriki.



Although he didn't know all of them personally, the
jinchūriki
 and the
tailed beasts
 were all considered by Naruto as his comrades. During the Fourth Shinobi World War, Naruto encountered the other jinchūriki that were
reincarnated
 by Kabuto and the tailed beasts that were resealed in their respective jinchūriki. Naruto understood their pain and resolved to free them from Obito's control, which in turn convinced Kurama enough to trust the human as Naruto was taken into the tailed beasts' shared subconscious with the other jinchūriki. As stated by
Han
, Naruto's words and actions also allowed the tailed beasts and their jinchūriki to get along and come together on
Son Gokū
's behalf.






The tailed beasts sharing their chakra and putting their faith in Naruto.



The jinchūriki and their tailed beasts each introduced themselves while placing their faith in Naruto and Kurama through fist bumps. While their jinchūriki were allowed to pass on, the tailed beasts each gave Naruto a part of their
chakra
 before being pulled back into the
Demonic Statue of the Outer Path
 before its regeneration into the
Ten-Tails
. Even when Obito became the Ten-Tails' jinchūriki, Naruto, through the combined effort of the
Allied Shinobi Forces
 and
Taka
, eventually was able to extract all of the sealed tailed beasts from Obito's body.
 The tailed beasts had collectively agreed that Naruto was the one spoken about by
Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki
, and began to aid Naruto in fighting against the
revived
 Madara,
 and later
Kaguya Ōtsutsuki
, lending him their
powers
.

In
later years
, Naruto
remained in contact
 with the tailed beasts whenever they needed to discuss important matters, or provide protection for each other.

Gaara






Gaara waking up beside Naruto after being revived.



When Naruto first met
Gaara
 before the Chūnin Exams, he was unaware that he was a jinchūriki like himself until he and Shikamaru stopped him from finishing off the hospitalised Lee. Ever since their encounter, Naruto understood that Gaara had been through the same pain as he had. Though he was afraid to fight Gaara at first, later during the
Konoha Crush
, Naruto was able to overcome this fear after seeing both Sasuke and Sakura in danger and was determined to protect them both from Gaara. When Naruto defeated him, Gaara, in great shock, questioned him why he was so strong. Naruto explained that despite having suffered a relentless lonely life, he never gave up hope on being acknowledged as a person and ultimately found friends who truly cared for him.

From that day on, Naruto's undying devotion and desire to protect his loved ones inspired Gaara to take on a similar path. Over time, he eventually became the Fifth
Kazekage
 of
Sunagakure
 and was finally able to connect with his people and be acknowledged as a person rather than a jinchūriki. When Naruto insisted on saving Gaara from the Akatsuki, he lamented to find that they killed Gaara by
extracting

Shukaku
. Though he criticised
Chiyo
 for sealing the tailed beast inside him, Naruto offered his chakra to her for Gaara's
revival
.

Though initially against Naruto participating in the Fourth Great Ninja War out of concern for his well-being and becoming angry with Naruto for appearing on the battlefield, Gaara soon accepted he was wrong for patronising Naruto. Two years after the war, Gaara argued in favour of not destroying the
moon
, as Naruto and
his team
 were still there. He later attended Naruto and Hinata's wedding, while shaking hands with Hinata.
 Over the years, Naruto's friendship with Gaara remained intact, to the point that Naruto keeps a photo of them at his house. He would even grow close to Naruto's new family as his kids came to treat him as an uncle. He attends the Chūnin Exams and sits with Naruto and the other Kage during the third round. After Naruto is kidnapped by Momoshiki and Kinshiki, Gaara and the other Kage team up with Sasuke and Boruto to rescue him.

Killer B






Naruto and B bumping fists.



When Naruto first met
Killer B
, he thought his raps were a little bit weird, but after discovering that he was a jinchūriki like him and had full control, he immediately requested B to train him. After gaining B's respect, the two became good friends. They can actually relate to one another, even by communicating with B's raps and fist bumps, something that
Yamato
, much to his frustration, couldn't understand. Naruto, in return, shows respect for B, calling him uncle. B was also willing to help him fight Kurama within his subconscious with
Gyūki
's help. B even stood up for him against his brother,
A
, when he tried to kill him and stated he would keep his promise from Iruka to protect Naruto, even going as far as to offer up his own life in exchange for A allowing Naruto to continue. The two then fought off against Obito and his Six Paths of Pain and could understand the other tailed beasts' suffering from Obito's control.

Two years after the war, B, who was controlling one of the
chakra cannons
, defied his brother once more and couldn't use the Chakra Cannon to destroy the moon since Naruto was still on it, still valuing their friendship. He later attended Naruto and Hinata's wedding, while bumping fist with Naruto.

References