This article is about the team. For the episode, see
The New Seven Ninja Swordsmen!!
.

The
New Seven Ninja Swordsmen
 (
新・忍刀七人衆
,
Shin Shinobigatana Shichininshū
) were the self-proclaimed successors of the original
Seven Ninja Swordsmen of the Mist
. Formed by
Shizuma Hoshigaki
, the group's objective was to start a coup d'état in
Kirigakure
 to overthrow the
Sixth Mizukage
 and replace him with
Kagura Karatachi
, as well as return the village to the era of the "Bloody Mist".

History

At some point during the Sixth Mizukage's era, Shizuma gained support from people connected to the Water Daimyō to start a revolution in Kiri.
 Upon Kagura obtaining the key to the vault containing the Seven Mist Blades, the group confronts Kagura at the
Kirigakure Academy
. There, Shizuma manipulates Kagura into joining his group and uses the key to get into the vault. With each member taking up a weapon, they intend to start their revolution by destroying Kiri's
Memorial Park
, but are stopped by
Boruto Uzumaki
, who is accompanied by
Sarada Uchiha
 and Chōjūrō. Ultimately, the rogue group was defeated and their rebellion stopped before it could actually begin, being written off as "just a scuffle among kids". Afterwards, the group's original members were imprisoned in a correction centre to undergo rehabilitation.

Sometime after the coup, Shizuma escaped his confinement with the help of
Hassaku
 and
Ichirōta
, which resulted in their relocation to a different facility. The remaining members were later reassembled under Kagura when the
Funato clan
 started a war against Kirigakure, with the initial promise that their sentences would be reduced. Further assistance from
Buntan
,
Kyohō
, and
Hebiichigo
 in helping end the war earned them their freedom, which however, came at the cost of Kagura's and Hebiichigo's lives. In the aftermath of the battle against the Funato, Kyohō decides to remain in Kagura's childhood home to serve as the village's protector while Buntan returns to Kiri.

In Other Media

Video Games

Shizuma Hoshigaki
, along with
Hebiichigo
 and
Buntan Kurosuki
, appears in the
Naruto Mobile
 game menu dedicated to the introduction of
Chōjūrō
 into the game as the Sixth
Mizukage
.

Trivia

It seems that the New Seven Ninja Swordsmen have a team symbol consisting of one central sword surrounded by six smaller swords which appears on the backs of their
jinbaori
 coats.

As with the true Seven Ninja Swordsmen, most members of this group have surnames, derived from a type of
produce
. This does not hold true for Buntan, daughter of
Raiga Kurosuki
, who did not share this naming theme either; however, the given name Buntan is named after a produce. Also like the original group, all members of the New Seven Ninja Swordsmen have sharpened teeth.

Unlike their inspiration, the New Seven Ninja Swordsmen do not wear bandage around their necks.

References