In his initial
jinchūriki
 form, Naruto first rushes forward with a shoulder charge. Once he connects, he then unleashes a brutal series of claw slashes until he rise-slashes ending with a downward slash, then in an instant releases all built up chakra in a powerful
Nine-Tails
 Burst which blasts away the victim.

Trivia

While Kakashi can copy this with his Sharingan in the first
Clash of Ninja
 game with no special effects on the claw slashes, it is beyond his ability as of
Clash of Ninja 2
.

Despite this secret technique requiring an initial blow, the fact that it is not a cinematic-based attack causes each blow to be affected normally by damage scaling.

In both
Clash of Ninja 1
 and
2
, this attack's tracking even when it connects properly tends to be inconsistent enough to allow the victim to escape (especially against walls at a specific angle). This was eventually fixed somewhat as of
Gekitō Ninja Taisen! 3
, where the attack locks the target in place properly throughout the sequence.

Also as of
Gekitō Ninja Taisen! 3
, the attack cuts out an animation before the first claw slash in the sequence from the prior instalments, reducing the overall hits by one.

Also as of
3
, the initial blow provides the incorrect type of hitstun for a re-stand state into the sequence if landed during a juggle. As a result, the combo counter will reset just before the barrage of attacks occurs, and thus damage scaling will not occur normally (though the victim is still not able to block during their landing lag).

In the Wii sub-series, shining claw effects are added that slash across the screen per strike.

This technique was Naruto's ultimate technique in
Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Heroes
, where it was named "Nine-Tails Barrage".

Likewise, there is a stronger version of this attack known as "Ultimate Nine-Tailed Naruto Wild Attack" (
究極九尾ナルト乱撃
,
Kyūkyoku Kyūbi Naruto Rangeki
) in the Japanese versions of
Naruto: Ninja Council 3
; this version is performed in his single-tailed Version 1 form, with its one of its motions involving the grounded-claw-drag based on the 133rd episode of the anime.