This article is about the Blue Vortex chapter.  For other uses, see
Nine-Tails (disambiguation)
.

"
Nine-Tails
" (
九尾
,
Kyūbi
) is chapter 9 of the
Boruto: Two Blue Vortex
 manga.

Summary

Jura
 is surprised to find
Himawari
 instead of
Naruto
.
Shikadai
 reports contact to the
sensor team
 and requests backup. Jura
pulls out
 a book from his cape to confirm information on Shikadai's identity. Shikadai asks if they want to leave a message for the
Hokage
, but Jura shocks them by telling them they were on Naruto's trail by follow the
Nine-Tails
' chakra signature. Shikadai stops
Inojin
 from sharing info on Naruto's supposed death. Jura is confused about it as well, delight that the world keeps raising more questions for him. He attempts to ensnare Himawari in a tree, but Shikadai
stops it
, allowing Inojin to pull her out, and
Chōchō
 to catch her. Jura is impressed by their team-work, and makes it clear they have no ill-intent with
Team 10
, but will attack if they keep interfering with Himawari.
Shikamaru
 contacts Shikadai, who updates him on the
God Trees
' goals. Himawari is confused by their interest in her.
Amado
 worries about
Kawaki
, and wonders what Jura is.
Koji
 notifies Boruto that the trees made a move, signalling to which
toad
 he should
teleport
. Jura confirms why they're after Himawari, confusing everyone because they thought the Nine-Tails was dead, and intends to get answers by devouring her.
 A toad contacts Shikamaru, notifying him of Boruto's arrival, and instructing him to have
Ino
 establish communications again. Kawaki wakes up,
Delta
 complaining she couldn't face
Ada
 if something happened to him. He dismisses it on account of his regeneration ability, but she counters that he still shouldn't be reckless. Delta gives him the coordinates of the invaders, but he's focused on Boruto's arrival. Boruto confirms it's the God Trees on account of their
Wood Release
 jutsu. Shikamaru contacts him, informing him of the trees' focus on Himawari and the Nine-Tails' chakra. Kawaki reports Boruto's presence to the sensor team, and asks if the invaders are his friends. Boruto puts Shikamaru on hold, and criticises Kawaki for focusing on him instead of Konoha's enemies. Kawaki attacks him, but Boruto dodges two
Sukunahikona
 attacks, and knocks Kawaki down in one move, admonishing him for insufficient training. Delta wonders how much Boruto has trained instead. Kawaki activates his
Kāma
, causing Boruto's to resonate in response. The toad urges Boruto to retreat, else he might lose control. Boruto flies away, leaving Kawaki puzzled about the lack of control. Inojin takes Himawari onto his bird while Shikadai holds Jura in place. Jura charges a
Tailed Beast Ball
 through his eye. Chōchō knocks him off balance, causing him to miss Shikadai.
Sarada
 and
Sumire
 rush towards the explosion. Inojin grabs Chōchō and Shikadai, and leaves.
Hidari
 finds them fools for not delivering Himawari under threat of death, but Jura deems finding out what motivates them past survival instinct to be a crucial piece of information as well. Team 10 discusses what to do, and Himawari requests to be dropped off to escape on her own. She is concerned about their safety, and suddenly finds herself in a mental plane, where a miniature Nine-Tails complains about being detected by the
Ten-Tails
. Himawari recognises the tailed beast as the Nine-Tails.