The
Nine-Tails Chakra Mode
 is a unique form of
transformation
 that is granted to the
jinchūriki
 of the
Nine-Tails
.

Attributes

The Nine-Tails Chakra Mode and its related forms coat the user's body in yellow
chakra
, which emanates from them reminiscent of flickering flames;
 in the anime,
Minato Namikaze
's is also surrounded by a slight dark aura.
 The form's design differs between users and can even change over time,
 but certain features are consistent across all forms: two horns on their head, six
magatama
 markings around their neck, some sort of prominent circular/swirl design over their stomach, and various other lines extending along their body.

Like all jinchūriki transformations, the user's physical abilities are enhanced while the mode is active, with greater enhancements coming from using more of the Nine-Tails' chakra. While using just the basic Nine-Tails Chakra Mode,
Naruto Uzumaki
 is strong enough to defeat members of the
White Zetsu Army
 with a single kick
 and fast enough to dodge the
Fourth Raikage
 using his
Lightning Release: Body Flicker Technique
.
 The chakra that surrounds the user also helps in protecting them from damage, allowing them to take
lava
 and
boil
-based attacks and suffer only minor injuries.
 Naruto is even able to survive
Tenpenchii
 because of his protective cloak, though the cloak itself is lost in the process.
 The user's scent and chakra signature also change.

From the chakra that surrounds them, users are able to produce
chakra arms
 as a way to interact with their surroundings or improve their manoeuvrability. Naruto primarily uses the arms to help him form the
Rasengan
 and its variants, having the arms assist with the
shape
 or
nature transformation
 that he usually relies on
shadow clones
 for.

Forms

Naruto's Yang Nine-Tails Chakra Mode.
Minato's Yin Nine-Tails Chakra Mode.
1/2

While using Nine-Tails Chakra Mode, users' eyes become orange but their pupils remain the same. Like previous jinchūriki of the Nine-Tails, Naruto is able to sense negative emotions while he's in this form,
 seemingly regardless of distance
 or obstructions.
 He also releases a powerful life force while the mode is active, causing
wood
 constructs to quickly mature into full-grown trees when he's nearby
 and White Zetsus to become trees when he comes in contact with them.





The initial risk of Naruto using Nine-Tails Chakra Mode.



Despite the passive abilities and enhancements he gains, Naruto's use of the Nine-Tails Chakra Mode is initially marked by limitations due to the Nine-Tails refusing to cooperate with him. This prevents him from using
Tailed Beast Balls
 while in this form,
 though he is eventually able to create
miniature versions
.
 Because Naruto "shelves" his own chakra in this form and instead draws on the Nine-Tails', his early uses of it come with a risk that the Nine-Tails will take that shelved chakra, resulting in Naruto's death. Naruto must, therefore, be careful of how long he uses the form for and how many shadow clones he creates, as doing too many only increases the risk.
 The Nine-Tails eventually stops trying to take Naruto's chakra,
 and soon after that, starts cooperating, removing these limitations.

Kurama Mode

Naruto's Yang Kurama Mode.
Naruto's complete Kurama Mode.
1/2

Once Naruto learns the Nine-Tails' name - Kurama - their hearts synchronise and Naruto becomes able to enter what is referred to as
Kurama Mode
 (
九喇嘛
モード
,
Kurama Mōdo
).
 His pupils becomes slitted, the whisker-like markings on his face become thicker to resemble the
☰ trigram
, and the chakra shroud's shape alters to resemble a full-length haori, similar to the one Minato usually wears.
 For all intents and purposes, Kurama Mode is a completed version of Nine-Tails Chakra Mode:
Tailed Beast Mode
 without the full transformation, meaning that Naruto is able to use Tailed Beast Balls.
 He can partially manifest parts of Kurama's body if needed, such as its head
 and tails.
 In
The Last: Naruto the Movie
, Naruto is shown isolating the Kurama Mode transformation to one hand.

Naruto is able to
transfer
 his and Kurama's chakra to others, granting them tailless
version 1
-like chakra shrouds that greatly enhance their techniques:
Hinata Hyūga
, for example, is able to deflect one of the
Ten-Tails
' tails with a single
Eight Trigrams Vacuum Palm
.

Kakashi Hatake
 states that the power and volume of the transferred chakra is even greater than when Kurama earlier directly handed chakra to him, which had improved his
Kamui
 at least three-fold.
 Despite Kurama's contribution,
C
 claims the transferred chakra more closely resembles Naruto's own.

Tailed Beast Mode

Main article:
Tailed Beast Mode






Minato and Naruto in Tailed Beast Mode.



Naruto and Minato are able to create full-size replicas of Kurama. Whereas other jinchūriki's Tailed Beast Modes cause them to fully transform into their respective
tailed beast
, Naruto and Minato's are instead an alteration of their earlier chakra cloaks changed to resemble Kurama: Naruto's is the same translucent golden colour as his earlier cloak, while Minato's is a much darker orange colour with both having similar black lines all across its body.
 Minato is able to enter this form directly from Nine-Tails Chakra Mode, while Naruto must initially first enter Kurama Mode.
 Naruto is initially limited to only using this form for five minutes because he hasn't perfected his bond with Kurama,
 but with practice they extend this to eight minutes,
 and then again to some unspecified limit.

While Tailed Beast Mode is active, Naruto and Minato hover within the construct's head. They can in fact allow others to enter the construct as well, extending its protection to them and allowing Kurama to heal their wounds and replenish their chakra.
 Because it isn't a proper transformation, Naruto and Minato can still use their other
jutsu
 from within this form, such as the
Rasengan
 and
Shadow Clone Technique
,
 and can even use the construct's tails as chakra arms.
 Kurama is able to speak through this replica and can be granted control of it;
 in
The Last: Naruto the Movie
, Naruto is shown manifesting the construct separately from himself, with Kurama in control.

Senjutsu Influence






Naruto's combination of Kurama Mode and Sage Mode.



Naruto can combine his Nine-Tails Chakra Mode and its various forms with
Sage Mode
 to further enhance his abilities with the power of
senjutsu
.
 His pupils become a combination of the two forms: the vertical
fox
-slits with the horizontal
toad
-slits. Naruto notes he can absorb
natural energy
 more quickly than usual while in Kurama Mode.
 After meeting
Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki
 during the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, these abilities are further augmented by the powers of the
Six Paths Sage Mode
 and the
Six Paths Senjutsu
.

Combination with Six Paths Sage Mode

Main article:
Six Paths Sage Mode

Naruto's initial mode after receiving Hagoromo's power.
Naruto's second mode in the
Boruto
 anime
.
Naruto's initial mode during
Boruto: Naruto the Movie
.
Naruto's second mode during
Boruto: Naruto the Movie
.
Naruto's initial mode in the
Boruto
 manga
.
Naruto's second mode in the
Boruto
 manga.
1/6

After receiving Hagoromo's power, Naruto gains the ability to use the Six Paths Sage Mode, and the initial appearance of his Nine-Tails Chakra Mode while simultaneously using it changes: his body is coated in yellow chakra; a sort of circular design is featured prominently over his stomach; the whisker-like markings on his face become thicker to resemble the
☰ trigram
; six
magatama
 markings are present on or around his collar; various other dark designs appear along his body, sometimes densely enough to give the appearance that he's wearing a body suit beneath the yellow coat. A
pattern
 consisting of a
Rinnegan
-like marking above nine magatama also appears on his back.
 His eyes become yellow and his skin does not glow along with the rest of his outfit when activated.
 However, these same features are absent in later uses: the back pattern being gone, and his chakra mode once again consisting of orange eyes and yellow glowing skin like his chakra modes before he met Hagoromo.
 The one consistent hallmark of Six Paths Sage Mode are Naruto's eyes: while his pupils maintain the cross of vertical fox-slits with horizontal toad-slats, there is no pigmentation around his eyes that would otherwise signify the standard
Sage Mode
.
 When Naruto uses the Nine-Tails Chakra Mode in conjunction with Six Paths Sage Mode, his abilities are pushed even further, demonstrated by him becoming fast enough to catch
Kaguya Ōtsutsuki
 off guard
 and durable enough to take a
Chidori
 unharmed.

Asura Kurama Mode






Naruto's Asura Kurama Mode.



After obtaining the Six Paths Senjutsu, Naruto retains the ability to enter Tailed Beast Mode,
 which, in terms of size and strength, is comparable to
Sasuke Uchiha
's
Complete Body — Susanoo
.
 Through the use of shadow clones, Naruto has shown the ability to combine three Kurama avatars into a single construct with three faces and six arms,
 which greatly resembles his ancestor
Asura Ōtsutsuki
's own
chakra avatar
.
 This form is known as "Asura Kurama Mode" (
アシュラクラマモード
,
Ashura Kurama Mōdo
).
 This mode allowed Naruto to use the
Six Paths: Ultra-Big Ball Rasenshuriken
, which was able to match Sasuke's
strongest attack
 and cause the
Valley of the End
 and the surrounding area to be devastated.

Baryon Mode

Main article:
Baryon Mode






Naruto's Baryon Mode.



When Naruto and Kurama both use their chakra and form the final form of the Nine-Tails Chakra Mode, Naruto retains most of his human form, but some of Kurama's features mesh with Naruto's. This mode allows Naruto to have high speed, dodging Isshiki's high speed rods, something Sasuke has trouble with even with his Sharingan. However, because it consumes a lot of the users' chakra, Naruto cannot maintain this form for as long.

Trivia






Naruto's face in the original colourised chapters.



Prior to Naruto entering Kurama Mode for the first time, the markings on Naruto's chakra shroud would extend further along his arms and legs whenever he attempted to form the
Tailed Beast Rasengan
, causing his cloak to briefly progress toward its complete form.

Kurama's
golden chakra
 and approximate age of a millennia evoke the "
Sky Fox
" (
天狐
,
tenko
), kitsune who gain golden fur upon growing their ninth tail and reaching 1,000 years of age. They become equivalent to kami and ascend to the heavens.

In the anime's
Power arc
, Naruto temporarily assumes an incomplete version of the Nine-Tails Chakra Mode after breaking free from Kurama's influence. During his brief time in the form, Naruto is able to form an incomplete Tailed Beast Rasengan, use chakra arms, and enter an imperfect version of the Tailed Beast Mode, although it lacked legs and possessed only six tails.

When Minato first entered this mode, his bangs spiked upward and his chakra cloak gained horns similar to those of his son. His hairstyle, however, reverted to its original state in the latter part of
chapter 639
.

In the colourised versions of chapters
676
 and
678
 included in digital editions of
Weekly Shōnen Jump
, Naruto's skin in this mode was depicted as yellow and his eyes had orange irides, much like his previous transformations. Later illustrations coloured by
Masashi Kishimoto
 instead depict Naruto with his original skin colour and yellow irides. The colouration was corrected in subsequent chapters and the
Naruto: Colour Edition
 release of
volume 71
.

Hagoromo attributes the presence of Kurama's chakra alongside Indra's and Asura's to his emergence from Madara's lower body as the Ten-Tail's jinchūriki after Kaguya's restoration.

See Also

Lava Release Chakra Mode

Lightning Release Chakra Mode

Tenseigan Chakra Mode

References