"
Nine-Tails Unleashed!
" (
九尾解放!!
,
Kyūbi Kaihō!!
) is episode 40 of the
Naruto: Shippūden
 anime.

Synopsis

Yamato
 signals for the rest of
Team Kakashi
 to join him on
Tenchi Bridge
.
Kabuto
 and
Orochimaru
 are amused to see
Naruto
 and
Sakura
 again, the latter musing whether he should bring
Sasuke
 here to pit him against the
jinchūriki
. Naruto, who is already under the influence of the
Nine-Tails
'
chakra
, begins to enter into his
one-tailed form
. Sakura and
Sai
 watch in a mix of shock and surprise as the chakra surrounding Naruto's body begins to engulf the air. As Orochimaru mentions Sasuke's name again, Naruto grows a second tail and rushes at him with superhuman speed, punching Orochimaru in the face and causing him to go through several yards worth of trees. As Orochimaru makes his way back to the bridge, the part of his face where Naruto struck him has peeled, revealing the face of
Gen'yūmaru
, the host body Orochimaru is currently occupying. Using his
Face Copying Technique
, Orochimaru reapplies his face as he remarks how Naruto is finally beginning to act like a jinchūriki; Kabuto himself states that Naruto, using the Nine-Tailed Fox's power, has grown considerably in strength.

Yamato recalls his conversation with
Jiraiya
,
Tsunade
 and
Kakashi
 at the
Konoha Hospital
, where Kakashi and Jiraiya were warning him about Naruto's "Nine-Tails' Cloak Form". Jiraiya had told Yamato that other than the time where Tsunade nearly killed him for peeking on her when she was nude, the only other time he had almost died was when Naruto entered his
four-tailed
 form. Jiraiya explained that whenever Naruto gave in to anger, the Nine-Tailed Fox's chakra would begin to leak out and envelop him. As Naruto's anger and rage grew, he would begin to grow more tails. On top of that, Naruto could only maintain his consciousness up to three tails; if he were to grow a fourth, his mind would succumb to the Nine-Tails' influence and he would instinctively attack on pure rage alone. Jiraiya likens Naruto's Version 2 form to being a mini version of the Nine-Tailed Fox itself. Jiraiya revealed to the group that when Naruto enters into his four-tailed form, the chakra of the Nine-Tailed Fox burns his skin off, causing immense pain and leaving Naruto to be covered by just blood and chakra. After the transformation subsides, the Nine-Tails' chakra then begins to heal him; the process of egregious damage followed by rapid recovery is shortening Naruto's lifespan. Tsunade had asked how this is even possible, and Jiraiya had explained that the seal the
Fourth Hokage
 had used was beginning to weaken over time, explaining why Naruto was succumbing to the Nine-Tailed Fox's chakra much more during his bouts of anger as opposed to when he was younger. Tsunade, Jiraiya and Kakashi tell Yamato that he is the only one who can keep Naruto in check since he has the power of the
First Hokage
 in his blood.

Back on the bridge, Orochimaru realises that Yamato is team captain only because Naruto is a jinchūriki, citing that
Konoha
 should be grateful for his experiments. When Kabuto asks what he means, Orochimaru reveals that back when he was a Konoha
shinobi
, he harvested DNA cells from the remains of the First Hokage and attempted to transplant them into babies and children; none of them survived, however. Before he could officially terminate the experiment and dispose of the subjects, he had been caught by the
Third Hokage
 with another experiment in another laboratory, forcing him to flee Konoha. He realises that one of those babies who had been injected with the First Hokage's cells had survived, and that the child is none other than Yamato. Sakura recalls Yamato creating
the wooden cage
 and how she wondered how Yamato was able to use the First's technique, and finally understands the reasoning. Orochimaru adds that the First Hokage had the ability to control
tailed beasts
, and that since Yamato has the power of the First within him, Konoha assigned him to keep watch on Naruto and control him if need be.

When Naruto demands that Orochimaru and Kabuto return Sasuke to them, the duo state that Sasuke came to them of his own accord. Orochimaru tells Naruto that if he wishes to know anything about Sasuke then he would have to beat it out of him. Naruto gives in even more to the Nine-Tails' influence and grows a third tail. The sprouting of the third tail causes the chakra in the air to intensify, causing a burning sensation to everyone else on the bridge. Sai realises that Naruto's true power comes from the demon fox, and Orochimaru, after staring into Naruto's changing pupils, senses the burgeoning Nine-Tailed Fox within. Naruto's three-tailed form then begins to form a chakra vortex above them.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Maile Flanagan
Sakura Haruno
Chie Nakamura
中村 千絵
Nakamura Chie
Kate Higgins
Yamato
Rikiya Koyama
小山 力也
Koyama Rikiya
Troy Baker
Sai
Satoshi Hino
日野 聡
Hino Satoshi
Benjamin Diskin
Orochimaru
Kujira
くじら
Kujira
Steve Blum
Kabuto Yakushi
Nobutoshi Kanna
神奈 延年
Kanna Nobutoshi
Henry Dittman
Kakashi Hatake
Kazuhiko Inoue
井上 和彦
Inoue Kazuhiko
Dave Wittenberg
Jiraiya
Hochu Otsuka
大塚 芳忠
Ōtsuka Hōchū
David Lodge
Fifth Hokage: Tsunade
Masako Katsuki
勝生 真沙子
Katsuki Masako
Debi Mae West