The
Ninja Escapades
 (
忍活劇
,
Ninja Katsugeki
,
literally meaning:
 Ninja Action Movie) are three short, playable stories featured in
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm Revolution
, accompanied by original anime footage produced by Studio Pierrot.
Masashi Kishimoto
 provided new character designs and editorial supervision for all three stories.

The Far Reaches of Hope

Japanese: Nozomi no hate ni (
望みの果てに
,
literally meaning:
 To the End of Hope)





Minato, Kakashi and Rin sit down to eat, while Obito and Kushina quarrel in the background.



After
Team Minato
 finishes their training for the day,
Kushina Uzumaki
 arrives with lunch for the team, much to
Rin
's excitement. While Kakashi and
Obito Uchiha
 argue, Kushina fawns over Rin, complimenting on how cute she is. Obito scoffs at Kushina, and is then scolded by her for being rude while
Minato Namikaze
 and the others look on.

Later that night at their house, Minato inquires Kushina about her opinion of his students. She states that Obito is her favourite because he reminds her of herself, and that she wishes for her
son
 to be someone with
a strong will
 like Obito. The day after, Minato and his team depart to
Kannabi Bridge
 for their
mission
, with Kushina making Obito promise that they'll come back. The scene shifts to the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, where Naruto, surrounded by all of the
Allied Shinobi Forces
, declares that the world would not end. Obito, alongside
Madara Uchiha
 atop the
Ten-Tails
, rebukes that the world would end. The alliance charges at the Ten-Tails, announcing the beginning of the
battle against the Ten-Tails
.

The Two Uchiha

Japanese: Futari no Uchiha (
二人のうちは
)





Shisui helps Sasuke training with
shurikenjutsu
 as Itachi watches on smiling.



Itachi
 and
Shisui Uchiha
 are training atop the
Naka River
. They start their battle and Shisui emerges as the victor. However, Shisui admits that Itachi would not have lost to him if it wasn't for what was on his mind. They discuss the upcoming Uchiha revolt and how to stop it when Itachi's
little brother
 runs out of the forest, demanding to know what they were talking about. Itachi says that Sasuke is still too young to know, but Shisui lies to him saying that they where discussing which was stronger. Shisui playfully asks Sasuke who is stronger while trying to get him to say he is, but Sasuke voices that though Shisui is strong, he is nowhere near able to beat Itachi. Later, Shisui speaks with
Hiruzen Sarutobi
,
Danzō Shimura
, and the
village elders
 about the
Uchiha clan
's revolt. Danzō wants him and others to just eradicate the clan; however, Hiruzen does not agree with this and Shisui offers to use his
Mangekyō Sharingan
 on the entire clan. Danzō thinks that would be a waste of Shisui's eye, but Hiruzen, seeing no other alternatives, agrees with Shisui and allows him to do so.

Returning to the Uchiha clan, Shisui prepares to use
Kotoamatsukami
 on his clansmen until he is attacked by a few
Root
 members and Danzō. He fights back, using his
Susanoo
 and attacks them, but is only able to take out a few of them. Danzō battles Shisui and tries to take his
Sharingan
 by force. Danzō obtains one of Shisui's eyes, as Itachi shows up and saves the latter before the former could take the other eye. Itachi and Shisui retreat to the Naka River, where Shisui explains the situation to Itachi. Entrusting Itachi with his other eye, Shisui bids farewell to his friend and commits suicide by jumping into the river.

The Creation of the Akatsuki

Japanese: "Akatsuki" Sōsei (
"暁"創生
)





The Akatsuki united for the first time.



When
"Madara"
 informs
Nagato
,
Konan
, and
Zetsu
 that they are the first three members of his group, Akatsuki, Nagato asks why Madara will not join as a member. "Madara" explains that he has some things to take of before he could properly join, so he names Nagato current leader of the Akatsuki and tells them to gather more members. He orders them to recruit
Kakuzu
 and
Sasori
 while he brings in
Itachi
 himself.

Kakuzu is seen in an unknown area, killing multiple
shinobi
 that he deems worthless. He is then ambushed by Pain and Zetsu, who offer him a spot on the Akatsuki's roster. Kakuzu refuses, mocking that Pain is just a weakling, prompting the latter to strike a bargain with the former: If he wins, then Kakuzu will join. After Pain defeats Kakuzu, he proceeds to leave with Zetsu.

In the
Land of Wind
, Konan confronts Sasori, who has just destroyed a small village. She asks him to join the
Akatsuki
, but he refuses and unleashes the
Third Kazekage puppet
 and attacks Konan. Konan wins the battle, and Sasori agrees to join to see what the other members' artistic abilities are like. All the while, Zetsu is seen in the background watching the whole fight.

Sometime later, "Madara" speaks to the other members, having successfully brought Itachi over to their side and that he has also gotten
Kisame Hoshigaki
 to join. Zetsu states that it appears that
Orochimaru
 is doing extensive research on their organisation. "Madara" instructs Pain and Sasori to dispose of him, and that he wants
Deidara
 to be recruited.

In a building, Itachi, Kisame and Sasori (inside Hiruko) invite Deidara to join the Akatsuki. Deidara declines, and Itachi challenges Deidara to fight in order to make him join. Accepting the fight, Deidara loses and becomes a member of the Akatsuki. Later, Pain and Sasori confront Orochimaru and question his suspicious behaviour towards their organisation. Orochimaru claims that he is generally curious about them, and reveals to Sasori that he knows that he was the one that kidnapped and killed the
Third Kazekage
. Sasori volunteers to dispose of Orochimaru, which Pain agrees to. Sasori dismisses
Hiruko
 and summons his Third Kazekage puppet. He and Orochimaru then proceed to battle, to which it appears that Sasori has won. Orochimaru tries to attack and take Pain's
Rinnegan
 for himself, but fails. Afterwards, Orochimaru insists that they let him join the Akatsuki. Despite Sasori's protests, Pain agrees and they leave.

With their organisation nearly completed, "Madara" commands Orochimaru and Kakuzu to retrieve
Hidan
 as their final member. The two Akatsuki members battle Hidan while they persuade him to join, but he continues to refuse. Kakuzu defeats Hidan and Orochimaru convinces Hidan to join the Akatsuki, reasoning that while Hidan can't be killed, they can seal him away forever.

Trivia

The Far Reaches of Hope
 is the only
Ninja Escapade
 that has no playable fights in it.

In
episode 457
, rather than
Orochimaru
 and
Kakuzu
 going to retrieve Hidan as shown in Creation of the Akatsuki, Itachi, Konan, and Kakuzu are the ones that retrieve Hidan as Orochimaru has already betrayed the Akatsuki.