The
Ninja Art Creation Rebirth — Strength of a Hundred Technique
 is a forbidden technique that is only accessible to those who have mastered the
Creation Rebirth
 technique.

Usage

While very similar in nature to its parent technique, which also regenerates the user's wounds via accelerated cell division, the Strength of a Hundred Technique has a continuous, automatic effect that will heal any damage that the user sustains instantly without the need to make
hand seals
 or even a conscious effort to activate the healing process as long as they have
chakra
 left. The enhanced regeneration granted by this technique is so rapid that even the wounds that resulted from Tsunade being impaled by two
gigantic swords
 were completely healed mere moments after their removal.
 As it builds on the Creation Rebirth, it shortens the user's lifespan.

Use of the technique also requires the release of the
Strength of a Hundred Seal
, but rather than just covering the face, the markings extend over the user's entire body. As a testament to both its power and her confidence in its healing prowess, Tsunade has decreed that only
medical-nin
 who have mastered this technique are permitted to break the first three rules that govern their role on the battlefield — which effectively prohibit their direct involvement in any conflict — that she herself established. This makes herself and her student, Sakura, the only ones allowed to break these rules.

This technique's power can be temporarily transferred to another person upon physical contact, as seen when Sakura extended the technique's markings onto
Obito Uchiha
.

Trivia

When written as '白毫',
byakugō
 means '
Ūrṇā
' (
literally meaning:
 Fine White Hair), which is a white swirl of fine hair on the forehead of the Buddha, represented in art by a spiral or a dot, or even a gem or pearl. It represents the
third eye
 which allows one to see past the mundane world and into the divine world. This is a clear allusion to the
diamond mark
 on the user's forehead.

According to
Madara Uchiha
, this technique is similar to
Hashirama Senju
's
ability
, in that it heals the user's injuries without requiring hand seals to activate.

References