An illustration of the ideal behind ninshū.



Ninshū
 (
忍宗
,
Viz:
 Ninja Creed,
literally meaning:
 Shinobi Sect) is the religion and the peaceful precursor of modern
ninjutsu
 created by
Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki
, the first one to understand and teach the mystery of
chakra
. The teachings of ninshū were meant to give people a better understanding of themselves, as well as others, and lead the world into an era of peace. Ninshū would eventually come to be known as ninjutsu, a more weaponised version of the Sage's teachings.

Hagoromo exemplified his teachings by
distributing
 chakra meant to "connect" people's spiritual energies with one another. It would allow people to understand each other without communication and pray for one another's safety. After being passed over as the successor of ninshū over his brother, and subsequently manipulated by
Black Zetsu
,
Indra Ōtsutsuki
 was the first to weaponise it into ninjutsu.





Ninshū converted to ninjutsu.



Others followed his footsteps, using chakra to connect their inner spiritual and physical energies together instead of each other. It was Hagoromo's belief that no one's chakra should be so much greater than any other. If the power is accumulated into one person, then it increases the possibility that the person will become arrogant and desire even greater power. In the end, they ended up using their chakra in battle, just as Hagoromo's mother
Kaguya
 did.

Trivia

Naruto Uzumaki
 distributing his and
Kurama
's chakra to connect and protect his fellow shinobi during the
Fourth Shinobi World War
 bears many similarities to Hagoromo's original intent by originally distributing chakra as a whole.

Killer B
 prominently displays something similar to Hagoromo's intended use of chakra in his ability interpret the hearts of others. Through a simple fist bump, he can read someone's thoughts and memories,
 transmit his own,
 and enter their mental landscape.
 This lets him recognise even
complete strangers
 and how important they are to someone he knows.

This ability was foreshadowed by
Sasuke Uchiha
, who mentioned that high-level ninja could read the thoughts and intentions of others through an exchange of blows.

In
The Last: Naruto the Movie
, when Iruka asks his pupils who they want to spend their last day on earth with, a sentence that is likely one of the teachings of Hagoromo's ninshū can be seen. It says "Ninja Arts 36 Strategies: Thinking about the future is thinking about the present" (
忍法三十六計 未来を考える事は現在を考える事
,
Ninpō Sanjūroku Kei: Mirai o kangaeru koto wa genzai o kangaeru koto
) and is signed by the Sage of Six Paths.

References