"
Ōnoki's Thoughts, Kū's Thoughts
" (
オオノキの思い、空の思い
,
Ōnoki no Omoi, Kū no Omoi
) is episode 84 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Boruto
 moves around at night with
Ōnoki
, taking care to avoid the
Akuta
, but triggers barrier tags. Ōnoki wakes up the next morning, wondering why Boruto saved him. Boruto presses him for further explanation of his plans. Ōnoki insists it's for the sake of peace, and that young shinobi are now weak and unreliable. Boruto decides to leave him, but Ōnoki informs him they're in the
Sanzu Plains
, which is surrounded by a powerful barrier that makes it difficult to leave once one is inside. Ōnoki explains the plains are a shinobi training ground where one can only leave when they find their heart stone, a simple pebble that requires one to train intensely to find. Boruto tries using shadow clones to find it, but the barrier prevents him from using jutsu, and Ōnoki explains no one else comes to the plains any more, so they're unlikely to be found by third parties.
Kokuyō
 and
Kakō
 report to
Kū
 they have yet to find Ōnoki. Kū wants them to deploy more Akuta for the search, confident that
Kirara
 will be able to keep the villagers from noticing their presence, and dismisses Kakō's suggestion to eliminate witnesses, as that would go against Ōnoki's plan. Kirara shows
Mitsuki
 her belongings. Kakō passes on Kū's orders, and
Sekiei
 explains to Mitsuki Konoha shinobi came looking for him, but Kū chased them away.
 Mitsuki wants to meet with Kū.
Inojin
 tries teaching
Akkun
 the names of his teammates.
Sarada
 and
Chōchō
 arrive, telling him there are many Akuta around, and are concern when learning that Boruto and
Shikadai
 haven't arrived. Ōnoki gives Boruto food and water as thanks for saving him, and the two continue to forage for sustenance. Ōnoki wants Boruto to admit that book learning during times of peace and plenty has made young shinobi weaker, and Boruto asks if he truly believes they were better off during times of war. Ōnoki stresses that his point is about the value of experience and training, pointing out the presence of powerful enemies like the
Ōtsutsuki
 Boruto himself has fought. Ōnoki explains that is why he created Kū and the others, Kū in particular made from his own cells. He invited Mitsuki to
Iwagakure
 because he was made with similar technology, and could help him further develop synthetic humans to fight instead of risking young lives. Mitsuki meets Kū, who wants to analyse Mitsuki to learn more about how he was created. Mitsuki points out the
juinjutsu
 on his heart, but Kū explains it's an old juinjutsu they can get around of with time. Mitsuki asks Kū about the will of synthetic individuals like themselves, and Kū advises him to ask the who created him. The two continue to discuss the nature of will. The other synthetic humans discuss the human condition, but Kakō and Kirara begin to break down. In the Sanzu Plains, Boruto and Ōnoki prepare for another night.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Inojin Yamanaka
Atsushi Abe
阿部 敦
Abe Atsushi
Chōchō Akimichi
Ryoko Shiraishi
白石 涼子
Shiraishi Ryōko
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Kū
Subaru Kimura
木村 昴
Kimura Subaru
Ōnoki
Tomomichi Nishimura
西村 知道
Nishimura Tomomichi
Kokuyō
Masashi Tamaki
玉木 雅士
Tamaki Masashi
Sekiei
Takehiro Urao
浦尾 岳大
Urao Takehiro
Kakō
Ryota Asari
浅利 遼太
Asari Ryōta
Kirara
Noriko Shibasaki
芝崎 典子
Shibasaki Noriko
Akuta
Kensho Ono
小野 賢章
Ono Kenshō