"
Ōnoki's Justice
" (
オオノキの正義
,
Ōnoki no Seigi
) is episode 83 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Boruto
 asks
Ōnoki
 for an explanation, but he gives none. Boruto begins to walk towards him, but
Kū
 immobilises him. The genin are surprised by the turn of events. Ōnoki apologises, and tells
Akatsuchi
 to stay out of it. Ōnoki claims it's for the sake of peace.
Naruto
 calls
Kurotsuchi
's office, and
Kontsuchi
 picks up, informing him that she still hasn't returned and it might be a while before she does, and that there no new developments that require immediate attention. Kontsuchi is being controlled by
Kirara
 through genjutsu. Naruto and
Shikamaru
 suspect something is up, and hope to hear from
Konohamaru
. On his way to
Iwagakure
, Konohamaru finds paralysed
Konoha
 shinobi. Akatsuchi demands explanations from Ōnoki. Ōnoki orders Kū to release Boruto, who asks what he meant by for the sake of peace. Ōnoki claims it's to prevent the repeating of a tragedy. Five years prior, Iwagakure was attacked by rogue ninja, and many young shinobi lost their lives. He points out Konoha was also recently attacked, by the
Ōtsutsuki
. He wants there to be someone to fight these threats instead of risking the lives of the youth, and that
Mitsuki
 will help him with that.

Sekiei
 meets up with Mitsuki, telling him he has to take him to Kū. He shows Mitsuki to his room, and shows them how the
Akuta
 are created. Mitsuki notices there are many, and Sekiei explains they'll soon have more Akuta than there are shinobi in Iwagakure to protect young lives. Mitsuki asks if they'll die in their place.
Kokuyō
 and
Kakō
 arrive, and are displeased with Sekiei showing Mitsuki around. Sekiei takes Mitsuki to see his room, and Kakō volunteers to end Mitsuki already, while Kokuyō wants to wait for further orders. Ōnoki says Mitsuki will help him with the final stage of their plans, but
Shikadai
 points out that if it gets out that he harmed Konoha shinobi, the
Hokage
 will take action. Ōnoki says he planned to do everything in secret, and has no intention of hurting them. Boruto begins fighting Kū, who has the Akuta attack as well. They discover their masks are their weak spot when one of them collapses when Sarada destroys it. Kū imprisons Boruto with an earth barrier, which Akatsuchi breaks with his earth golem. Kū destroys Akatsuchi's golem with
Dust Release
. The genin want to retreat to their rendezvous point. Kū exchanges blows with Akatsuchi, sending him flying towards a pillar, which collapses on top of Ōnoki's vehicle. Boruto saves Ōnoki. One of the Akuta manages to capture Shikadai. Kokuyō and Kakō hurry past Sekiei and Mitsuki, who finds it suspicious. Mitsuki asks about the drawings on Sekiei's room. Sekiei explains they're his, and that his master created them to protect the people he cherishes. Sekiei wants to create friendships worth protecting so he can get stronger. He asks Mitsuki for confirmation that humans grow stronger when they have someone to protect. Mitsuki is surprised by the question, but confirms it. Sekiei shows him a drawing of them. Shikadai is imprisoned in a cell next to Kurotsuchi. She recognises him as Shikamaru's son, and asks what he'd doing there. Shikadai begins explaining. A doctor arrives for Mitsuki's examination. It reveals the
juinjutsu
 that would destroy Mitsuki to prevent information about
Orochimaru
's experiments being discovered. Kurotsuchi explains to Shikadai it all started when she rejected one of Ōnoki's proposals in the wake of the attack five years prior. Ōnoki created prototype Akuta to protect the village, but they misbehaved and attack them. Kurotsuchi disavowed their development, as the villages agreed to stand by each other in emergencies, and the Akuta development would jeopardise that. Ōnoki continued his Akuta development in secret, as well as the artificial humans. Kurotsuchi and Shikadai plan to break out. Kū grows impatient with the Akuta being unable to find Ōnoki. The genin move through Iwagakure at night, avoiding the Akuta.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Shikadai Nara
Kensho Ono
小野 賢章
Ono Kenshō
Chōchō Akimichi
Ryoko Shiraishi
白石 涼子
Shiraishi Ryōko
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Ōnoki
Tomomichi Nishimura
西村 知道
Nishimura Tomomichi
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Shikamaru Nara
Shotaro Morikubo
森久保 祥太郎
Morikubo Shōtarō
Konohamaru Sarutobi
Hidenori Takahashi
高橋 英則
Takahashi Hidenori
Kurotsuchi
Hana Takeda
武田 華
Takeda Hana
Akatsuchi
Kenta Miyake
三宅 健太
Miyake Kenta
Kontsuchi
Fumitake Ishiguro
石黒 史剛
Ishiguro Fumitake
Kū
Subaru Kimura
木村 昴
Kimura Subaru
Kokuyō
Masashi Tamaki
玉木 雅士
Tamaki Masashi
Sekiei
Takehiro Urao
浦尾 岳大
Urao Takehiro
Kakō
Ryota Asari
浅利 遼太
Asari Ryōta
Kirara
Noriko Shibasaki
芝崎 典子
Shibasaki Noriko
Doctor
Tomohisa Aso
麻生 智久
Asō Tomohisa