See also:
Anime-Manga Differences
 and
Chapter-Tankōbon Differences

This page lists the differences that occurred during the transition from novel to anime and manga.

Anime

Shikamaru Hiden: A Cloud Drifting in Silent Darkness

Main articles:
Shikamaru Hiden: A Cloud Drifting in Silent Darkness
 and
Shikamaru Hiden: A Cloud Drifting in Silent Darkness (Arc)

In the novel,
Naruto Uzumaki
 and
Sakura Haruno
 are among those sent as reinforcements to the
Land of Silence
: Sakura treats
Temari
's injury and Naruto stays behind after Shikamaru returns to Konoha to assist the country's recovery. In the anime, they were not sent.

The entirety of Chapter 4 was not adapted in the anime, which contained the following:

Kakashi Hatake
 gives
Shikamaru Nara
 time off after the completion of the mission. A week later, he gives Shikamaru another assignment, which he turns down due to his date with Temari.

The story ends with a flashforward a few years later to Shikamaru and Temari with their
newborn son
, deciding what to name him.

Konoha Hiden: The Perfect Day for a Wedding

Main articles:
Konoha Hiden: The Perfect Day for a Wedding
 and
Konoha Hiden: The Perfect Day for a Wedding (Arc)

Previously in the
Shikamaru Hiden
 novel, Shikamaru and Temari had begun dating. In the anime, the events of
Konoha Hiden
 take place shortly after; Shikamaru and Temari had yet to go on their first date.

Itachi Shinden: Book of Bright Light/Book of Dark Night

Main articles:
Itachi Shinden: Book of Bright Light
,
Itachi Shinden: Book of Dark Night
 and
Itachi Shinden Book: Light and Darkness

Both novels were very loosely adapted in the anime, major events that were excluded are the following:

Itachi Uchiha
 completing the
Chūnin Exams
 without teammates.

Itachi's mission to assassinate
Mukai Kohinata
.

Gozu
 and
Mezu
, who aided Itachi in monitoring the Uchiha clan.

In the novels,
Tenma Izumo
 and his friends
Hagiri
 and
Katsura
 had bullied Itachi because they had accused the
Uchiha clan
 for being involved with
Nine-Tailed Demon Fox's Attack
. In the anime, Itachi had not met Tenma until joining Team 2 and the other bullies were replaced with
Dokan
, who instead challenged Itachi for defending other students.

In the novels,
Danzō Shimura
 took Shisui's eye with the assistance of
Sugaru
. In the anime, after a short scuffle, Danzō used
Izanagi
 and then took Shisui's eye.

In the anime,
Fugaku Uchiha
's motivations to conspire a coup d'état are further explored, revealing he had partially deciphered the
stone tablet
 with his
Mangekyō Sharingan
. This did not happen in the novels.

In the novels,
Izumi Uchiha
 is killed by Itachi's
Tsukuyomi
. In the anime however, Izumi is killed by the
masked man
.

In the novel, the masked man was helping
Yashiro Uchiha
 to lead the voices of pro-coup faction in influencing Fugaku. This was omited in the anime.

In the anime, Danzō's role in focusing Konoha's hate on the
Uchiha clan
 and Naruto Uzumaki for the
Nine-Tailed Demon Fox's Attack
 was omitted.

Sasuke Shinden: Book of Sunrise

Main articles:
Sasuke Shinden: Book of Sunrise
 and
Sasuke Shinden: Book of Sunrise (Arc)

In the novel,
Amuda
 was sent to
Konohagakure
 by
Chino
 with a group of human bombs but was captured. Amuda did not appear in the anime.

In the novel, Chino,
Nowaki
 and Amuda are freed from their imprisonment by Kakashi in exchange for rooting out injustices that they were once victims of. Chino's first act was freeing the slaves from the
Coliseum
. In the anime, the pair is freed by the
Fifth Mizukage
, but it is
Sasuke Uchiha
 who raids the Coliseum.

In the novel, the slaves from the Coliseum were taken in by Konoha after they had been freed. In the anime, they were instead taken in by
Kumogakure
.

Konoha Shinden: Steam Ninja Scrolls

Main articles:
Konoha Shinden: Steam Ninja Scrolls
 and
Steam Ninja Scrolls Arc

The events of the novel begin in
Naruto
 chapter 700
 and during
Naruto Gaiden: The Seventh Hokage and the Scarlet Spring
.
 In the anime,
Konoha Shinden
 takes place at a later time.

In the novel,
Mirai Sarutobi
, Kakashi and
Might Guy
 meet
Tatsumi
 at their last inn stop. In the anime, they meet her at their third stop.

Naruto Shinden: Parent and Child Day

Main articles:
Naruto Shinden: Parent and Child Day
 and
Parent and Child Day Arc

The entirety of Chapter 2 and the Interludes were not adapted in the anime, which contained the following:

Hinata
 and
Hanabi Hyūga
 spending the holiday with
Hiashi Hyūga
.

Shino Aburame
's activities during the festival. While they were mostly cut, Shino's possession of the Kurama doll was retained in the anime.

In the novel, Sasuke had returned to Konoha to discover the wreckage of his house after locating the address from Sakura's note, assuming it is a
genjutsu
.
Sarada Uchiha
 would run into her father shortly after and tells him about Parent and Child Day. In the anime however, this is cut and it is
Boruto Uzumaki
 who informs Sasuke of the holiday.

Sasuke Retsuden: The Uchiha Descendants and the Heavenly Stardust/Kakashi Retsuden: The Sixth Hokage and the Failure Boy

Main articles:
Sasuke Retsuden: The Uchiha Descendants and the Heavenly Stardust
,
Kakashi Retsuden: The Sixth Hokage and the Failure Boy
 and
Sasuke Retsuden Arc

While the
Sasuke Retsuden
 novel is the primary focus of the anime adaptation,
Kakashi Retsuden
 coincides with the arc's events.

In the novel, a prisoner tries to convince Sasuke to escape the
Astronomy Research Institute
 with him, to which the latter refuses. The prisoner would then attempt an escape later in the evening only to be killed by
Menō
. In the anime, the prisoner slips past the guards when Sasuke is attacked by other prisoners. Shortly after, he is caught and mauled to death by Menō.

In the novel, during his encounter with Menō, Sasuke forms a blade of ice to injure it. In the anime, Sasuke summons a kunai from a scroll to attack it instead.

In
Kakashi Retsuden
,
Nanara
 overheard plans during his dinner that soldiers would be sent to Nagare Village.
Manari
 explains to him that the
Land of Redaku
 will invade other countries for their resources, however, the
Prime Minister
 dismisses Nanara for being too young for the discussion. In the anime, the Prime Minister summoned Nanara and was the one to explain their plans for an invasion.

In the novel, Sasuke fled from Menō after having been poisoned by it. In the anime, instead of Sasuke fleeing, Sakura stopped Menō’s attack by showing it her cloth pass.

In the novel, after he regained consciousness and learns Sakura had saved him, Sasuke asked about Sarada's whereabouts. This was cut in the anime.

In the novel, Sasuke hides when Gigi visits the infirmary until the latter began flirting with Sakura, revealing their marriage. In the anime, Sasuke instead discovered Gigi eavesdropping.

In the novel, in the library, Sasuke discreetly informed Sakura of Penjira's gambling habits as an opportunity to gain access to the observatory's archives. This was not shown in the anime, as well as Sakura playing
Hoshinarabe
 against Penjira.

In the anime, Sasuke is confronted by Menō after exiting from a passage behind the observatory, which has its control overridden by the latter. However in the novel, this does not happened until after Zansūru enacts his plan.

In the novel, Sakura is assisted by Penjira, Ganno and the other prisoners in fending off the dragons. This does not happen in the anime.

In the novel, Jiji reveals to Sasuke and Sakura that he was a former Suna-nin who had been hired by the Prime Minister to train a private army. In the anime, Jiji said he was a formerly a missing-nin from Suna who took refuge in the Land of Redaku.

In the novel, after Jiji had released his
reincarnation ninjutsu
, a dragon slashed his throat as revenge for having revived it before its soul departed. In the anime, the dragon charged towards Sakura, to which Jiji threw himself in front of her to save her life. His torso was bitten instead.

In the novel, after Sasuke and Sakura had returned to Konoha from their mission, Sarada offers to make them dinner with the skills she learned from staying with
Iruka Umino
. Shikamaru shortly visits their residence to update them on the polar particle analysis and Naruro's condition. However, this is cut in the anime and Naruto's illness had been cured.

Anime novelisations

These are novelisations of
arcs
 from the anime released after their airings.

In the novel
Those Who Illuminate the Night of Shinobi!
 Sumire's mother's name is revealed to be
Hakobe Shigaraki
.

In novelisation of the
School Trip Arc
,
Buntan Kurosuki
 and Sarada meet a day earlier than what happened in the anime. Buntan picked up the handkerchief that fell from Sarada and noted that she was from the Uchiha clan.

In addition, before their fight, the girls talked a lot about
Madara Uchiha
, Obito Uchiha, and
Yagura Karatachi
.

After the battle, Buntan talked about Sasuke's technique called
Kirin
.

It was mentioned that Buntan's mother died before the beginning of this arc.

Manga

Sasuke Retsuden: The Uchiha Descendants and the Heavenly Stardust

Main articles:
Sasuke Retsuden: The Uchiha Descendants and the Heavenly Stardust
 and
Sasuke Retsuden: The Uchiha Descendants and the Heavenly Stardust (manga)

The novel begins with an explanation of the
Astronomy Research Institute
's history to Sasuke being a prisoner of the institute. A fellow prisoner would then ask him if he is a shinobi. The manga however, begins with Sasuke asking citizens of the
Land of Redaku
 regarding when the
Sage of the Six Paths
 had visited the country during his time. It is there he would meet the same prisoner, who was among those that had escaped the institute. Using his ninjutsu to stop them outside the prison is what motivates the prisoner to later ask Sasuke to help him escape.

In the novel, after failing to ask for Sasuke's assistance in escaping, the prisoner makes an attempt to escape on his own.
Menō
 would catch and maul him to death. The attack was not shown in the manga.

In the novel, after losing a game of
Chinchirorin
 to Sasuke,
Penjira
 accompanied him outside their cell to be his lookout, but eventually returns to his cell out of fear of being caught. In the manga, Penjira does not leave the cell.

In the novel, after failed attempts to put Menō into a genjutsu, Sasuke resorted to using his
Rinnegan
 instead to place a genjutsu. In the manga, Sasuke used only his Sharingan in each attempt.

In the novel, during his second encounter with Menō, Sasuke escapes by slashing the floorboard underneath. Realising he had been poisoned during the fight, Sasuke tried to refresh himself using
Water Release
. Neither happened in the manga; Sasuke's escape from Menō was not made clear in the manga.

Konoha Shinden: Steam Ninja Scrolls

Main articles:
Konoha Shinden: Steam Ninja Scrolls
 and
Konoha Shinden: Steam Ninja Scrolls (manga)

In the novel, Kakashi had a conversation with Naruto about taking a vacation. In the manga, Kakashi has this conversation with Shikamaru.

As with the earlier anime adaptation, the timeframe is at later point than in the novel, as
Team 15
 are already genin.

Trivia

While
Shikamaru Shinden: A Cloud Dancing in Forlorn Falling Petals
 was not adapted in the anime,
Ōnoki
 had died before the timeframe that the novel takes place in.

References