This article is about the manga chapter. For the character, see
Obito Uchiha
. For other uses, see
Obito Uchiha (disambiguation)
.

"
Obito Uchiha
" (
うちはオビト
,
Uchiha Obito
) is chapter 599 of the original
Naruto
 manga.

Summary

Arriving late for the
Academy
 entrance exam,
Obito Uchiha
 is stunned to see the huge crowd of young
shinobi
 present. After exchanging glares with
Kakashi Hatake
, Obito is given his entrance papers by
Rin Nohara
. During the
Chūnin Exams
, after arriving late for the second round of the exam which was to take place in the
Forest of Death
, Obito, alongside his teammates Kakashi and Rin, faces off against
Might Guy
,
Ebisu
 and
Genma Shiranui
 in a group battle. Wanting to impress Rin, Obito moved to the fore and prepared to attack the group with a
Fire Release
 technique, but the sweet he had been given by the elderly lady whom he had helped with her luggage had slipped down his throat. Guy used this opportunity to unceremoniously kick Obito — unknowingly saving his life in the process. After receiving medical attention from Rin, the two converse, with Obito indicating his pride in being a member of the
Uchiha clan
 and expressing the wish to become
Hokage
. Training arduously for the third round of the Chūnin Exams, Obito later faces Guy in the individual matches, but is quickly defeated despite expressing his confidence in winning prior to the start of the match. As Rin cheers Kakashi on when he defeats Guy in a subsequent match, Obito appears jealous and resigned over Rin's lack of reciprocation of his hidden feelings. After becoming a
chūnin
, Obito is approached by Rin, and intends to confess his feelings for her, only to become too embarrassed and soon overlooked by Kakashi's recent promotion to
jōnin
. Shortly after, Obito
dies during a mission with his team
. But in the present day, as the mask falls away from Tobi's face, Kakashi and Guy are very shocked to see that Tobi is in fact their old comrade Obito Uchiha.

Trivia

The last page of the chapter is the only page to feature dialogue; a single line consisting of three words ("You are... Obito?").

In the panel after Obito sees off the old woman, his hair is light-coloured.

In this chapter,
Minato Namikaze
's face was etched into the
Hokage Mountain
 despite him not being appointed
Hokage
 yet.
Masashi Kishimoto
 later apologised for this error in the Weekly Shōnen Jump publication,
 and it was later removed in a
subsequent chapter
 mosaic, and the tankōbon release.

According to the information given by the previous databooks with regards to age, many of the characters who participated in the
Chūnin Exams
 would have not graduated from the
Academy
 as yet in theory, such as
Asuma Sarutobi
,
Anko Mitarashi
,
Kurenai Yūhi
,
Hayate Gekkō
 and
Might Guy
, amongst others.

References