This article is about the chapter. For the episode, see
Obito and Madara
.

"
Obito and Madara
" (
オビトとマダラ
,
Obito to Madara
) is chapter 601 of the original
Naruto
 manga.

Summary

As
Madara
 arrived on the battlefield,
Naruto
,
Kakashi
,
Guy
 and
B
 were all shocked to see the legendary
shinobi
 before them, leading them to wonder what had happened to the
Kage
. As Madara and
Obito
 casually carried on their conversation, Madara noted that the Naruto in front of them was also a clone. Madara tells the
jinchūriki
 that the Kage were probably not doing well much to the latter's enragement. Elsewhere,
Tsunade
, who had been split into two, managed to summon
Katsuyu
. Katsuyu was distressed at Tsunade's condition and immediately wanted to piece her back together. However Tsunade told the giant slug to bring the other Kage to her as there might still be time to save them. Back on the battlefield, Obito returned Madara's
gunbai
 to him in time for the famed
Uchiha
 to block a volley of
black receivers
 which Naruto had sent flying at the two of them. After hearing the
Demonic Statue of the Outer Path
, Madara asked Obito why he started the
plan
 half-way through without the
Eight
 and the
Nine-Tails
 being captured and deemed his actions as hasty. He also accredited the
manner
 in which he was brought back to the world of the living as being due to Obito's haste and questioned him about what had happened to
Nagato
 and the
Outer Path: Samsara of Heavenly Life Technique
 that was supposed to bring him back. Upon hearing that they wanted to use his fellow disciple in this manner, an enraged Naruto moved to attack them with a
Super Mini-Tailed Beast Ball
. Madara, however, blocked the attack and
sent the force back
 at the clone, expelling it. Concluding the fact that the young Uchiha must have a plan, Madara moved to capture the Eight and the Nine-Tails, leaving Obito to deal with Guy and Kakashi. Kakashi used this opportunity to question his old friend about what had happened to him and Obito had a flashback of being heavily bandaged and stitched together in a place that an old and wizened Madara referred to as being between the land of living and the dead.