This article is about the shinjutsu.  For other uses, see
Omnipotence (disambiguation)
.

Omnipotence
 is a
shinjutsu
 claimed to be used only by a god, whose effect is to bring out the user's desires. It is described as a programming language that Gods have used to create worlds and to make anything real. Because of this ability,
Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki
 declared this technique to be the most powerful shinjutsu.

Akin to
genjutsu
, this power is capable of affecting the mind of others, but unlike other genjutsu, this jutsu can be used on a far greater scale. Similar to the
Infinite Tsukuyomi
, this jutsu can be used on a worldwide scale, manipulating the memories of everyone on the planet to how the user sees fit.

Usage

Modified by
Amado Sanzu
 with
Shibai Ōtsutsuki
's genes,
Ada
 inherited this power. However, because she is not an actual
Ōtsutsuki
, she has no conscious control of this technique, only able to instinctively use it to grant her deepest desires. Her first known use of this shinjutsu was charming everyone, both male and female, around her with her desire to find true love.
 The symptoms of the charm affect everyone differently: headaches, vertigo, fever, impaired judgement, and stiffened muscles from extreme tension are the known symptoms.
 The only exceptions to the charm are family members and the
Ōtsutsuki clan
.

Ada would later subconsciously make
Sarada
 and
Sumire
 immune to Omnipotence and its charm effect as a result of her own desire for genuine friendship.
 Soon after, desiring to please Kawaki, along with channeling Kawaki's desire for Boruto to be viewed as an outsider like him, Ada’s subconscious caused this power to rewrite the memories of everyone on a global scale, even those removed from the dimension Omnipotence was cast in, to perceive
Kawaki
 as the son of the
Seventh Hokage
 and
Boruto
 as the outsider taken in by the Hokage, effectively making the two switch lives with each other. Beyond the initial rewrite, over the next three years, Omnipotence also suppressed any lingering sense of contradiction in those affected, such as Kawaki's body being modified by Kara despite supposedly being born and raised in Konoha, as well as Momoshiki's absence, and those confronted about the changes become more stubborn in their refusal, even if they are confronted with visual evidence. When Sarada and Sumire consulted Ada, she thought it was impossible to reverse the change, finding it more practical to rewrite new memories, which carried its own risks.
 Even the concept of Omnipotence is removed from the minds it affects, so if someone is told that the memory rewrite took place, the knowledge about it will fade.

Countering

Momoshiki claimed that killing the technique's user won't undo its effects. Ada similarly found it more likely that the affected majority would think the immune minority were the ones whose memories were tampered with if anyone tried reasoning with them. Despite being affected, Sasuke seemed to be able to avoid the lingering effects of the changes by focusing on the initial contradictions right after the memory rewriting took effect. Three years in, Mitsuki was taken aback by Kawaki's harsh treatment of him, and took notice of these feelings. Similarly, Amado was able to recognise his own alterations in Kawaki's body, deducing his own memories must have been altered. Hearing a report on Amado's theory, Shikamaru Nara began recognising that puzzling situations made more sense when memory alteration was considered. If one is able to realise the truth that memories were altered without learning about Omnipotence, accepting as truth by themselves, is possible to retain some of that knowledge, something Boruto considers "no mean feat".

Koji Kashin
, who managed to awaken his Shinjutsu,
Ten Directions
, before Omnipotence was cast, was able to see all possible futures, allowing him to notice the true history of Boruto's position, despite his own altered perception that Kawaki was the "Seventh Hokage's son", thus concluding that his memory was altered.

Trivia

Upon hearing Amado's explanation of
Ada
's ability to enchant all, Momoshiki, who claims to be aware of all shinjutsu, initially assumed the "love charm power" cannot be
shinjutsu
,
 though after concluding the origin of it,
 identified its true nature as a shinjutsu.

The official Naruto website calls Ada's expression of Omnipotence "The Ability to Beguile All Humanity" (
全人類を「魅了」する能力
,
Zen jinrui o "miryō" suru nōryoku
).

The official Naruto website states that Omnipotence was used to create the current world.

According to Momoshiki, those who are immune to the technique are the ones who will suffer the most from it.

See Also

Creation of All Things Technique

Izanagi

References