This article is about the chapter.  For other uses, see
Omnipotence (disambiguation)
.

"
Omnipotence
" (
全能
,
Zennō
) is chapter 79 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 manga.

Summary

Boruto
 demands an explanation from
Momoshiki
, but he doesn't elaborate.
Shikamaru
 leads the hunt for
Kawaki
, instructing the sensors to stay sharp for the moment Kawaki exhausts himself and his chakra signature returns.
Team 10
 wants to search for Kawaki before
Moegi
 stops them.
Konohamaru
 orders
Sarada
 and
Mitsuki
 to take Boruto to the hospital while he and
Sasuke
 join the search for Kawaki. After they leave, Mitsuki abandons Sarada to join the search. She recalls Mitsuki's words about what he'd do if someone tried killing Boruto. Boruto tells her not to leave Mitsuki alone as he has lost his cool, making him dangerous. Sarada goes after him. Kawaki no longer has enough chakra to maintain
Sukunahikona
, returning to normal size near a search party.
Ada
 finds him with the
Senrigan
, and flies away after him, leaving
Daemon
 and
Sumire
 behind.
Amado
 contacts Shikamaru, asking him not to kill Kawaki, revealing he can issue a shutdown command, like with
Delta
. Shikamaru admonishes him for still keeping secrets from them, and while sympathetic to Amado's need of Kawaki for
Akebi
, remains firm about considering Kawaki an enemy to be eliminate if he doesn't surrender completely, further distressing Amado.
 Ada finds Kawaki, telling him she's on his side. He complains that by being unable to
erase her presence
, she's broadcasting his. She vows to protect him. He elaborates he doesn't care about himself, just
Naruto
, stressing that if Momoshiki isn't taken out, Naruto and
Konoha
, which Naruto fought to protect, will be eliminated. Kawaki grabs Ada and agonises over Boruto being Momoshiki's vessel, wondering who could bring themselves to kill the Hokage's son, making enemies of so many allies, and wonders why it couldn't have been a nobody, who no one would mourn. Something triggers between them as they float, sending a flash through the entire planet. Everyone notices it, including Daemon, who is out looking for Ada. The search party finds Ada and Kawaki. Momoshiki sneers at Boruto. Kawaki prepares to attack the search party, but Ada holds him back, telling him something's off. Shikamaru is notified of their location, and immediately after of Boruto's location. Sarada finds it strange why Boruto's location would be shared. Momoshiki teases Boruto, and tells him to turn around. Sarada and Mitsuki find him, and he asks Sarada what happened. She's also interested in finding out. Mitsuki tells her to maintain a distance, and enters
Sage Mode
, prepared to attack Boruto, shocking them both. One of the shinobi asks Kawaki about his eye wound, to his confusion. Ada asks about Naruto, referring to him as Kawaki's father. The shinobi answers the only thing they know is that Boruto did something. Boruto doesn't understand when Mitsuki asks what he did to Naruto, and Momoshiki warns him of Mitsuki's attack from below. Sarada doesn't understand how Mitsuki could attack Boruto. Momoshiki tells Boruto everyone is out to kill him, and explains that this is the true nature of Ada's ability to entrance people, the
Omnipotence

shinjutsu
 she can't control herself. He describes it as a programming language gods have used to create worlds, to make anything real. He elaborates that her charm was just a reflection of her desires made real by the shinjutsu, something Amado had no way of truly knowing based on the observable effects. He reveals that through Ada, Kawaki's desire became reality, exchanging their positions in the collective memory. Shikamaru asks Ada for more information on how Naruto and
Hinata
 disappeared, but she doesn't think it'll be useful. Kawaki tells her to say Naruto died by Boruto's hand. Momoshiki continues his explanation, saying that everyone's consciousness is connected by chakra, and a god can meddle with it, and asks if Boruto never wondered if an
Ōtsutsuki
 who achieved godhood may have tampered with humanity's memory before. He adds that Omnipotence doesn't effect those Ōtsutsukified, nor Ada as the user, and notes that Sarada doesn't seem to be affected, noting that those immune to it are the ones who suffer the most. He summarises that now, Kawaki is the Hokage's son who was born and raised in Konoha, and Boruto is the ungrateful outsider being hunted.