Omoi
 (
オモイ
) is a
shinobi
 from
Kumogakure
 that serves as a close aid for the
Fifth Raikage
.

Personality






Omoi overthinking.



Omoi is a very cautious person and likes to think things through before acting, and as a result, gets lost in his thoughts quite often. He is more level-headed than his teammate
Karui
, but often demonstrates a wild imagination and has a habit of exaggerating the end result of minor things (like when Karui threw a rock at him and he believed it would cause an avalanche and destroy
Konohagakure
) and likes to make fun of Karui's hot-headed personality with painful results.
 He also has respect for people who stand by their word, even if they are the enemy. He is a very intelligent ninja. In the anime, he was shown also to be very resourceful even under pressure. It has also been said by his teammate, Karui, that he is rather pessimistic when he expresses his concern for Killer B. Nevertheless, he is capable of becoming deadly serious and exhibits great conviction when the situation demands it; having expressed disgust when he saw that
Akatsuki
 was making
Sai
 fight his
brother
 and stepped in to prevent that from happening.
 He is likewise willing to sacrifice himself to protect others and the mission, able to smugly smile at his foe in the face of impending demise just to spite them.

Appearance

Omoi is a young, dark-skinned Kumo-nin with short, spiky, white hair and dark eyes accentuated with eyelashes curving upwards from the corners. He wears a dark outfit consisting of an overlong shirt with a hood, with red bandage hand guards, Kumogakure shin guards, and a black
forehead protector
 along with a Kumogakure flak jacket. He is always seen with a thoughtful expression, as though always in deep contemplation and sucking on a lollipop. He also carries a long sword on his back.

Years after the Fourth Shinobi World War, Omoi's appearance and attire is mostly unchanged, though he now wears a smaller version of his village's flak jacket, which only covers his chest. He has also stopped wearing a forehead protector in the manga, while in the anime it remains until the
Kara Actuation Arc
.

Abilities

Omoi is a very capable shinobi, having been specifically chosen by the Fourth Raikage for certain missions, and being commended by
Kakashi Hatake
 on his strength.
 By adulthood, he had become a
jōnin
,
 and would regularly be the bodyguard of the
Fifth Raikage
.

Kenjutsu






Omoi using Cloud-Style Crescent Moon Beheading.



Trained by
Killer B
,
 Omoi is highly proficient in
kenjutsu
, gaining praise from
Sasori
 in that regard.
 He uses a fairly long katana into his
fighting style
. He can easily counter a barrage of attacks with a single
swipe of his blade
 and just as effectively attack from
behind himself
 surprising his opponent.
 In the anime, he was shown even able to cross blades against a famous swordswoman like
Ameyuri Ringo
.
 He is also shown to be very clever in battle, using
feint attacks
 and deceptions with
shadow clones
 or the
Body Replacement Technique
 as set ups for a
final blow
.

Ninjutsu

Nature Transformation






Omoi using Lightning Release.



Besides physical combat, Omoi has noted that he can use
Lightning Release
 to a certain extent, such as
infuse his sword with lightning
.
 In the anime, he is also shown able to produce a
strong bolt
 that when guided by water will take out a fair number of enemies. He can also collaborate his lightning chakra with others to produce a powerful
lightning burst
.

Other Skills






Omoi creating afterimages of himself.



He is very resilient, able to continue fighting after being hit by
lightning

attacks
.
 Similarly, he is shown to be able to hold his breath for a noticeably long period of time while still fighting effectively.
 Also, despite their constant bickering, Omoi has shown to be able to collaborate effectively in battle with his teammate
Karui
, using fluent attack patterns without having to communicate with each other, as seen during their brief scuffle with
Team Kakashi
.
 He also has impressive strength, able to send
Sakura Haruno
 flying a considerable distance away with a single kick.
 By adulthood, he could create afterimages of himself.

Part II

Pain's Assault

Main article:
Pain's Assault






Omoi's team prepare to depart to Konoha.



Team Samui is summoned before the
Fourth Raikage
, and he and Karui argued over the possible reasons. He thought he was going to be scolded for putting mayonnaise on his potatoes. In actuality, they are to deliver a letter to the
Hokage
 about
Killer B
's recent capture. Omoi fears he may already be dead, but Karui insists he's being pessimistic. The Raikage tearfully vows that they will rescue B and both Omoi and Karui cry along with him.

Five Kage Summit

Main article:
Five Kage Summit

As they near
Konoha
, Omoi worries that, once they got there, a girl would fall for him and, once he had to leave, she would commit suicide out of loneliness. After a short argument with Karui, she threw a rock at him. He then worries that the rock could cause an avalanche that would bury Konoha. Karui insists that he overreacts too much. When they arrive in the village they find that it is nothing but a crater, which Omoi blames Karui for. They ask around and find out that about the recent
attack on Konoha
.

While Samui meets with the Hokage, Omoi and Karui overhear
Naruto
,
Sakura
, and
Sai
 talking about
Sasuke
, B's captor. They demand all information they have on Sasuke, leading to a brief scuffle between the two groups. Omoi informs them of Sasuke's actions and promises to take vengeance against him which, if Konoha and Kumo are to be allies, they should help them by providing information that can be used to kill Sasuke. Naruto assures them that there may still be time to save B and offers to tell them everything they want to know, which calmed them down. When it comes time do to so, however, Naruto can't bring himself to sell out Sasuke. He offered to let Karui beat him up, which she gladly does. Omoi watches for a time, but then encourages her to stop, commenting that Naruto didn't seem to be the type of guy to betray a friend which Omoi respected, along with his wish to aid them in rescuing B.

After reuniting with Samui, the team goes to the
Konoha Archive Library
 to make a copy of all of Konoha's intel about Sasuke. As they set out to rendezvous with the Raikage, Omoi is glad to see that Karui is worrying about the injuries she gave Naruto. They deliver the information to the Raikage in the
Land of Iron
 before returning to Kumo. When the later Raikage returns to the village with B, Omoi asks him about his
new sword
.

Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation

Main article:
Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation






Omoi frees Tokuma and Ranka.



When the
Fourth Shinobi World War
 begins, Omoi is placed in the
Surprise Attack Division
 under the command of
Kankurō
. Omoi questions Kankurō's leadership abilities and experience considering they were around the same age, but Kankurō assures him that nothing will stop him from protecting his comrades and completing their mission. When they later set up a base camp, Omoi sets traps around their perimeter. These measures do not stop an
Akatsuki
 attack, yet Omoi is quick to engage the hostile forces. He discovers that they are actually
allies
,
forced
 to attack them by
Sasori
. Omoi
releases
 them and, after getting them medical attention, regroups with the rest of his division.

Because
Deidara
 is among the enemy's ranks, the division needs a way to deactivate his
earth
-based
explosive clay
. Omoi volunteers to try neutralising the clay with his
lightning
-infused sword. After he and Kankurō engage Shin who was being manipulated by Sasori and struggles to hit a moving target, Omoi is finally able to pierce Deidara after they are ruthlessly attacked by enraged Sai and is trapped in one of Kankurō's
Kuroari
 puppets, deactivating his bombs. Omoi,
Sai
, and
Zaji
 are sent out to find other Akatsuki cells. They come across and attack a group consisting of
Haku
,
Zabuza
,
Gari
, and
Pakura
, but Sai's aerial attack of
explosive tags
 fail and Haku attacks them using his
Demonic Mirroring Ice Crystals
. Before they can be killed the
Third Division
 arrives to help. They later join the division protecting Kakashi while he executed his strategy.






Omoi clashes with Ameyuri Ringo.



In the anime, he, Zaji, and Sai would later join up with the
Third Division
 and battle
Fuguki Suikazan
 and he and Zaji would go off to aid
Maki
 and her team to fight
Gari
 and
Pakura
.
 When
Yurui
's team was set upon by Ameyuri Ringo, he and a few others were able to escape the attack. As they retreated on
Nurui
's orders, Omoi was adamant that they could not run forever and needed to make a stand and fight despite Nurui's disapproval. Disregarding his orders, he leaves Nurui and
Kayui
 to confront Ameyuri head on. An intense battle with the kunoichi soon ensued and though Kayui and Nurui returned to offer assistance, they were struck down by the legendary swordswoman and her
swords
. In the end, Omoi was able to trap Ameyuri in a marsh and as they both sank, reinforcements arrived and were able to rescue Omoi. Ameyuri, who had taken a liking to Omoi, gave him her swords as a parting gift before being completely submerged in the marsh.






Omoi and the Thundercloud Unit finish off the White Zetsu Army.



Later, when Omoi learned that the
Thundercloud Unit
, a small new supply unit of children was in danger, Omoi chose to leave his post to save them. Despite some initial refusal from the Raikage, he ultimately allowed Omoi to go with the condition of returning in one hour. Along the way he encountered two thousand more White Zetsu. While a Naruto Uzumaki clone arrived to help him, excited by the idea of becoming Raikage Omoi attacks the White Zetsu Army and accidentally hit Naruto's clone, dispersing it. While Omoi was able to hold his own against the army, they began emerging from a red material and gained its properties starting to exhale a red dust cloud with poisonous effects, forcing Omoi to fight while holding his breath. He found the team and combined their lightning-chakra to
disperse
 the poison cloud. After the Zetsu were defeated and Omoi brought the Thundercloud Unit to their location, Raikage demanded Omoi return to his post before the hour was up or be punished, prompting Omoi to hastily rush back.

Fourth Shinobi World War: Climax

Main article:
Fourth Shinobi World War: Climax






Omoi and the Allied Shinobi Force confront the Ten-Tails.



Along with the other remaining members of the
Allied Shinobi Forces
, Omoi made his way to the battlefield where the jinchūriki were. Meeting up with Karui, the two immediately went to B's side when they arrived, where the two proceeded to make sure that their sensei was all right. They later stood alongside the others to face their opposition.

After B had regained enough chakra and flew towards the
Ten-Tails
 to launch a counter-measure against the Tailed Beast Ball the beast was preparing to launch, Omoi silently mused for his sensei to be careful and later chided him as he flew through the air, that he needed to be more cautious. After receiving chakra from Naruto, Omoi later charged towards the Ten-Tails alongside the other shinobi. Their collaborative effort was enough to separate the two Uchiha from the beast.

Omoi later noticed with shock as the Ten-Tails opened its mouth and started to form an enormous
Tailed Beast Ball
, wondering whether or not the beast was transforming yet again.

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Main article:
Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Ultimately, Omoi and the rest of the world were freed from the
Infinite Tsukuyomi
 by Naruto and Sasuke after they ended the war. Some time later, in the anime, he returned the
Kiba blades
 to
Kirigakure
.

Blank Period

Shikamaru Hiden: A Cloud Drifting in Silent Darkness

Main articles:
Shikamaru Hiden (novel)
 and
Shikamaru Hiden (anime)

Omoi is Kumo's representative in the
Shinobi Union
.

New Era

Years after the Fourth Shinobi World War, Omoi became the Fifth Raikage's bodyguard. He has guarded him at two
Kage Summits
 held in Konohagakure.

Versus Momoshiki Arc

Main articles:
Boruto: Naruto the Movie
 and
Versus Momoshiki Arc

When Darui attends the final round of the
Chūnin Exams
 in Konoha, Omoi stood guard.

Shikamaru Shinden: A Cloud Dancing in Forlorn Falling Petals

Main article:
Shikamaru Shinden: A Cloud Dancing in Forlorn Falling Petals

Omoi and Darui attended a Kage Summit in Konoha at the Hokage building, during which the Kage bickered about topics concerning Konoha, leading to
Kurotsuchi
 demanding Konoha to disclose all of its confidential information as the village's proof to peace by the next summit, and said
Iwagakure
 would leave the Five Great Shinobi Country alliance if they didn't. After the demand, the summit ended.

Kara Actuation Arc

Main article:
Kara Actuation Arc

When word spread that a sample of the
First Hokage
's cells was stolen from Konohagakure and taken to the
Land of Silence
, the Fifth Raikage sent Omoi, along with
Marui
 and
Kakui
, to retrieve it for Konohagakure. Upon arriving, they learned that the previous holder of the target,
Sakuya
, had been killed and the cells allegedly stolen by Konoha-nin. Omoi's team soon found the Konoha-nin. Before a fight could break out, Omoi recognised
Konohamaru Sarutobi
, who explained the situation. After they deduced that the real culprits were
shinobi
 from the
Land of Haze
, the groups joined forces to hunt the enemy down.






Omoi facing Deepa.



Along the way, they were intercepted by
Deepa
, who was also looking for the Hashirama Cell. Omoi's team decided to face the new threat while the Konoha-nin moved on. Despite their best efforts, Deepa proved unfazed by everything they attempted. With his body immune to their attacks, Kakui and Marui were soon defeated, leaving Omoi on his own. Ultimately, Omoi was soundly defeated, and Deepa began questioning him about the Hashirama Cell's location. While he refused to speak, Kakui and Marui soon recovered. Refusing to let Omoi die, they revealed that the target was on its way to the Land of Haze. Deepa promptly killed Omoi's team-mates, choosing to spare Omoi as he got what he wanted before leaving.

Battered, Omoi managed to catch up to the Konoha-nin, shocked to find them captured by Hiruga's
self-sacrificing technique
. Omoi revealed what happened to his team, noting that the new enemy was on his way to the Land of Haze. This prompted Hiruga to release his technique before taking off to aid Asaka. Omoi decided to stay behind while the Konoha-nin went on ahead as he would slow them down in his condition. He warned them that all forms of physical attacks have no effect on Deepa.

Later, Omoi safely returned to his village. After recovering he was present when Konohagakure sent word through
Chōji Akimichi
 about Deepa's defeat and the looming threat of
Kara
.

Kawaki Arc

Main article:
Kawaki Arc

When
Team 7
 found a mysterious
boy
 with connections to
Kara
, Naruto called forth a Kage Summit, with Omoi joining Darui as his bodyguard. As talks about the boy's fate began, it was unanimously decided to treat the boy with sympathy as they were no strangers to children being made into weapons (i.e.
Jinchūriki
). It was also agreed for the boy to live with Naruto, who would watch over him at all times.

In Other Media

Movies

Naruto the Movie: Blood Prison

Main article:
Naruto the Movie: Blood Prison

Omoi makes a minor appearance when he and his team are talking about the
Box of Ultimate Bliss
 and the
Hōzuki Castle
 with A, and
Mabui
 until he and the others were knocked out by
sleeping gas
.

Video Games

Omoi is a playable character in the following video games:

Game name
Japanese release
English release
Naruto Mobile
2016
2016
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Blazing
14 July 2016
24 August 2016
Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Online
14 April 2013
20 July 2016

Trivia

His name is a pun on two words which have the pronunciation "Omoi":

重い, which means "heavy", contrasting with
Karui
, which means "light".

思い, which means "thought", alluding to his thoughtful manner.

Quotes

(After being summoned by the
Raikage
) "
What the hell does he want? Is it something big…? Or… is he gonna scold us for something? Should I have not put mayonnaise on my fries?
"

(To
Karui
) "
You need to think things through more carefully…
"

"
No time to be anxious… I won't let you force friends and family hurt one another!
"

References