"
Only Babble in Your Sleep
" (
寝言は寝て言え
,
Negoto wa Neteie
) is chapter 18 of the
Boruto: Two Blue Vortex
 manga.

Summary

Sumire
 enters
Amado
's lab to find him pinned against the wall by
Kawaki
. Kawaki says he is only having a talk with Amado. He demands that Amado upgrade his settings or else he will be killed, forcing the latter to use his shutdown for Kawaki.

Meanwhile in the
Land of Wind
,
Mitsuki
 introduces
Ryū
 to
Yodo
 and
Araya
. Araya warmly greets Ryū, but Yodo simply glares at him, which Ryū notices. Araya whispers to Yodo to calm down.

Konohamaru
 and
Matsuri
 continue to talk, as Matsuri realizes she is beginning to act more normal. Matsuri asks if she can call Konohamaru Konohamaru-chan. Thinking back at the many times
Moegi
 called him that, Konohamaru begins to grow stressed, but he keeps it confined. Ryū continues to look for clues with Sarada, Mitsuki, Yodo and Araya. Using his
Iron Sand
, Ryū begins to search the area, explaining that his Iron Sand is his detection ability and he can learn a lot with it. As the Iron Sand surrounds everyone, Ryū points out Yodo's intense bloodlust, but Yodo simply states that all ninja are like this. Mitsuki quickly changes the subject, asking Ryū why he is looking for Boruto. Ryū states that he doesn't fully understand why himself, but Boruto knows too much about them, including about their
Thorn Soul Bulbs
, and Jura decided to kill him for being too much of a threat. Remembering about the Thorn Soul Bulbs, Sarada suggests using one as bait to lure Boruto out.

Later, Kawaki awakes from his shutdown, and Amado agrees to modify Kawaki's ability settings to offense to stand a chance against the Human God Trees. However, Amado states that there is a condition, revealing a newly-built resurrection vessel for
Akebi Sanzu
 that closely resembles her in appearance, which is for Kawaki to implant the vessel with a
Kāma
 so Akebi can be resurrected. Kawaki can achieve this as his
Kāma
 has Akebi's data embedded into it. Proclaiming that all of his actions thus far has led to this, and this is his only purpose in life, Amado begs Kawaki to comply, in exchange for his powers being fully released. Kawaki simply declares that he will kill Amado's daughter should she be revealed to be an
Ōtsutsuki
. In the unlikely event that she is, Amado agrees, but he will fight Kawaki with everything he has to prevent this. Kawaki declines Amado's terms, as they do not have the luxury to worry about a potential new enemy, and releasing his full powers should come first. Kawaki agrees to only help with resurrecting Akebi, only on the premise that he might kill her right away, and only after he has dealt with all of the current threats. Amado pleads with Kawaki that he is currently endowed with near-immortal defensive capabilities, and if he redirects all of that to offense, his survival cannot be guaranteed, and if Kawaki dies, so will Amado's dreams, as only Kawaki's
Kāma
 can be used to revive Akebi. Kawaki simply expresses his desire to kill his enemies over his desire to survive, telling Amado to make him into an even bigger monster than them. Once Kawaki slaughters the Human God Trees,
Code
, and Boruto, he will allow Amado to reunite with his daughter.

Meanwhile, Matsuri is overjoyed at having the chance to talk with Konohamaru. Shaken, Konohamaru politely asks if Matsuri could not call him Konohamaru-chan, as that name is reserved for one person. Noticing Matsuri's expression change, Konohamaru tries to rectify his words by acting purposefully vague, but Matsuri is aware he is referring to Moegi. Matsuri asks Konohamaru what Moegi exactly means to him. When Konohamaru hesitates on answering, Matsuri angrily yells at him to answer her as she transforms her collar into
wood
 to surround him.

Ryū agrees with Sarada's idea to use his Thorn Soul Bulb to lure Boruto, willingly extracting it from his body. As the others confirm to themselves that this is the object they need to collect, Ryū keeps his Thorn Soul Bulb levitating in the air above them, waiting to see if Boruto will appear. Yodo, as an alerted Araya tells her not to, immediately jumps forward to retrieve the Thorn Soul Bulb. However, Ryū freezes her in place with his Iron Sand, aware that they were trying to fool him and the Thorn Soul Bulb was to lure them instead. Exclaiming that the shinobi need to be punished for stooping so low, Ryū begins coating Sarada, Mitsuki and Araya with Iron Sand. The Iron Sand surrounding Sarada force her to grab a
Kunai
 from her pouch and to lunge towards Yodo, with Mitsuki confirming Ryū can use his Iron Sand to
manipulate them like puppets
.

Before Yodo can be struck, the Iron Sand surrounding Yodo and Sarada was dispelled by huge sword slash from Araya, revealing his
Magnetic Iron Sand Sealing Blade
.