"
Orochimaru vs. Jinchūriki
" (
大蛇丸VS人柱力
,
Orochimaru tai Jinchūriki
) is episode 42 of the
Naruto: Shippūden
 anime.

Synopsis

Naruto
, in his
four-tailed form
, begins fighting against
Orochimaru
. Orochimaru attempts to use his snakes to grab a hold of Naruto, but the
Nine-Tailed Fox
's chakra end up incinerating the snakes. As the chakra begins to burn Orochimaru as well, he uses his
body replacement technique
 to regurgitate a new body out of his mouth before the old one is incinerated. Retaining the bottom half of a snake, he slithers in a rapid manner towards Naruto and punches Naruto in the face. Naruto is able to grow another fox head and claws out his chakra and manages to bisect Orochimaru. Orochimaru is able to
connect
 and regenerate both of his halves. He attempts to finish Naruto off by
spitting out one thousand snakes
, each armed with a sword in their mouths. However, Naruto uses one hand to create a devastating blast of pure chakra that incinerates the snakes and sends Orochimaru flying.
Sai
 and the
Yamato

wood clone
 are unable to interfere due to the intensity of the battle; the wood clone, however, informs Yamato that Naruto has indeed reached his four-tailed form.

Sakura
 and Yamato are approached on the remains of the
Tenchi Bridge
 by
Kabuto
, who wonders how
Konoha
 knew that he was to meet
Sasori
 at this time and place. Kabuto states that not even the other
Akatsuki
 members knew of the meeting, and since Sasori isn't the type to give up information under torture, he must have been captured or killed. When Sakura tells him that it's the latter, Kabuto finds joy in it. He tells Yamato and Sakura that Sasori bore a grudge towards Orochimaru and always claimed that he would kill him, and therefore must have told them about his secret meeting in order for them to kill Orochimaru on his behalf.

On the other side of the destroyed bridge, Naruto prepares himself to use the ultimate
tailed beast
 technique -
Tailed Beast Ball
. Yamato's wood clone wonders how Naruto is still able to move despite having so much chakra on his body, and Orochimaru echoes the sentiment, claiming that that degree of dense chakra should weigh him down. As Naruto swallows the chakra balls, the increased density does indeed cause him to sink into the ground; nonetheless, he fires the Tailed Beast Bomb as a beam towards Orochimaru. The
Sannin
 tries to block the move by
summoning

Triple Rashōmon
, one of his highest defensive techniques, but the Triple Rashōmon is completely obliterated by the Tailed Beast Bomb. At the end of his rope, Orochimaru resorts to using his
Sword of Kusanagi
 in an attempt to impale Naruto. While the sword does hit him, it does not impale; instead, Naruto is send flying through the air and into a wall near the bridge. Sakura, Yamato and Kabuto witness Naruto's four-tailed form for the first time, and Kabuto remarks that this is the closest Naruto has ever gotten to fully transforming into the Nine-Tailed Fox; Sakura is terrified at Naruto's appearance.

Trivia

This is the first episode of
Naruto
 in which he is not voiced, due to the fact that he communicates only in grunts, growls and roars.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Sakura Haruno
Chie Nakamura
中村 千絵
Nakamura Chie
Kate Higgins
Sai
Satoshi Hino
日野 聡
Hino Satoshi
Benjamin Diskin
Yamato
Rikiya Koyama
小山 力也
Koyama Rikiya
Troy Baker
Orochimaru
Kujira
くじら
Kujira
Steve Blum
Kabuto Yakushi
Nobutoshi Kanna
神奈 延年
Kanna Nobutoshi
Henry Dittman