Orochimaru
 (
大蛇丸
) is one of
Konohagakure
's legendary
Sannin
. With a life-ambition to learn all of the world's secrets, Orochimaru seeks immortality so that he might live all of the lives necessary to accomplish his task. After being caught red-handed performing unethical experiments on his fellow citizens for the sake of this immortality, Orochimaru defected from Konoha rather than be persecuted for his ambitions, and for many years sought the village's destruction in order to take revenge and demonstrate what he had learned. After several apparent deaths in the pursuit of his goals, Orochimaru realises his approach is flawed through
Kabuto Yakushi
, his former associate, and begins monitoring the choices and actions of his former apprentice,
Sasuke Uchiha
.

Background






Orochimaru as a child.



Orochimaru was an orphan who became a pupil of
Hiruzen Sarutobi
 alongside
Jiraiya
 and
Tsunade
. Compared to the more laid back Jiraiya, Orochimaru stood out as a genius — his talents, insight, and determination were considered by Hiruzen to be that of a prodigy seen only once in a generation.
 According to Tsunade, Orochimaru had a twisted personality even as a child. His sadistic attitude was presumably due to the death of his parents. At some point after losing them, Orochimaru found a white
snake
 near his parents' grave, with Hiruzen's explanation of it representing fortune and rebirth inspiring Orochimaru to study
kinjutsu
 and obtain knowledge of all techniques.
 Jiraiya theorised that Orochimaru went down this path in an attempt to forget his painful memories.






Orochimaru and his team being dubbed the "Sannin" by Hanzō.



During the
Second Shinobi World War
, Orochimaru joined Jiraiya and Tsunade in fighting
Hanzō
, who gave them the title of Konoha's "Three Legendary Shinobi" (
伝説の三忍
,
Densetsu no Sannin
) as a reward for surviving their battle with him, while the rest of their group were easily slaughtered in the process.
 On their way back to Konoha, they encountered three
Amegakure

orphans
, with Orochimaru proposing a mercy killing before Jiraiya chose to train them instead.
 In the anime, Orochimaru orchestrated the last known rampage of the
Eight-Tails
 in
Kumogakure
 by infiltrating the village while disguised as a Kumo-nin and posing as
Blue B
's doctor in order to trick him into taking special
genjutsu inducing pills
, allowing him to extract the tailed beast. After its rampage, Orochimaru obtained the severed horn of the Eight-Tails and harvested Blue B's DNA from it.

Orochimaru would go on to fight in the
Third Shinobi World War
, with his performance in the war being so great that he was considered as a candidate for
Fourth Hokage
 alongside fellow war hero
Minato Namikaze
.






Orochimaru working under Danzō as a Root operative.



Some time after Team Hiruzen was disbanded, Orochimaru became an
Anbu
 member and joined
Root
 to work directly under
Danzō Shimura
, while also mentoring future legendary shinobi such as
Anko Mitarashi
.
 It was during that time that Orochimaru met Kabuto Yakushi while accompanying Danzō in forcing the boy's guardian,
Nonō
, into a mission.
 While Orochimaru's ambitions did include becoming the
Fourth Hokage
, he intended to use the title for his own agenda.
 Though Hiruzen knew the potential evil his former pupil had in him, he hoped to stir Orochimaru from the path before slowly realising that he was beyond anyone's help.
 When Hiruzen finally named Minato his successor, Orochimaru saw no more reason to remain in Konoha and began to be less discreet with his actions,
 resulting in him beginning to experiment on humans to further his research.
 This led to his implanting of
Hashirama Senju
's DNA into sixty children he kidnapped to recreate the First's
Wood Release
, having help from Danzō.
 Believing it to be a failure, Orochimaru was unaware that
one child
 had survived his Wood Release experiment. He later refined the process enough to inject Hashirama's cells into the
Sharingan
-infused right arm of
Shin Uchiha
, which he transplanted to Danzō.
 Orochimaru also learned the
Second Hokage
's forbidden
Summoning: Impure World Reincarnation
 during this time.

Orochimaru performed various experiments on his prisoners, some being fellow Konoha shinobi he kidnapped. He used them as human guinea pigs to develop techniques that would grant him immortality, the end result being
Living Corpse Reincarnation
. Some time later, Orochimaru was at the outskirts of
Kirigakure
 as he found
Kimimaro
, the sole survivor of the
Kaguya clan
. Soon after, thanks in part to Kimimaro, Orochimaru's research on the source of
Jūgo
's powers led him to find the
Ryūchi Cave
 and master
senjutsu
.
 Unable to enter
Sage Mode
 because of the fragility of his host body, Orochimaru instead developed an alternate method of harnessing his senjutsu chakra through
cursed seals
, which he tested on Anko and several others before eventually using the finalised versions on Kimimaro and the
Sound Four
. In the anime, Orochimaru found the
Iburi clan
 living underground near Konoha. Taking an interest in their ability to
become smoke
, Orochimaru took advantage of the clan's fear of their imperfect and potentially fatal transformation by partially stabilising it with his cursed seals. Telling them that he needed more research to perfect the process, the clan willingly gave Orochimaru test subjects.
 In the anime, Orochimaru witnessed
Itachi Uchiha
 performing a training run normally meant for older and more experienced users due to the danger of it. After the young Uchiha flawlessly completed it, Orochimaru instantly became amazed and excited at Itachi's advanced growth rate. In the anime, he also allied himself with
Amachi
 out of interest for creating
a shinobi capable of underwater combat
, kidnapping
Land of the Sea
 villagers for their experiments, while introducing Anko to the project. Sometime after, Orochimaru lost interest in the project, and ordered Amachi to cancel it, while also seeing Anko as a lost cause for her refusal to use the cursed seal, and wiped her memories as she left him.

Orochimaru was later sent on a mission by Danzō to
Iwagakure
 to ensure that both Kabuto and Nonō, the former having joined Root as a spy, killed each other as they had become major liabilities. Orochimaru instead brought Kabuto to his
hideout
, which would become part of his personal hidden village,
Otogakure
, and revealed Root's intent for Kabuto's life and the role he was to play in it. Though Orochimaru revealed that he was also sent to kill the one who survived this ordeal, he told Kabuto that he saw a bit of himself in the boy and decided killing him would be a waste of great talent. Therefore, Orochimaru offered Kabuto a position as his right hand man and spy with the promise of an identity.






Hiruzen discovers Orochimaru's criminal activities.



As his test subjects began to die off, Orochimaru was caught red-handed by Hiruzen. Though he knew it was his duty, Hiruzen lacked the will to kill his student, allowing him to escape.
 In the anime, during his escape, Orochimaru was found by
Kakashi Hatake
. Despite the young prodigy's best efforts, Orochimaru swiftly defeated him. Letting his guard down at the approach of a snake, Orochimaru was greatly injured by an
explosive tag
 concealed in the snake's mouth. Cursing Hiruzen for ruining his plans, though greatly injured, Orochimaru quickly regained his composure. He then resumed his retreat from the country, leaving a terrified Kakashi frozen in place from his
malicious glare
 alone.
 Seriously wounded, Orochimaru visited the cave where the Iburi clan lived and killed them all, trying to restore his power. Upon the arrival of the youngest member,
Yukimi
, Orochimaru pursued her while being chased by Kakashi Hatake and
Kinoe
. Eventually, he managed to take a sample of Yukimi's blood, intending to inject it into himself to temporarily gain her ability and slip across the border, but he was attacked before he could do so and quickly escaped.
 Orochimaru managed to destroy most of his research facilities and booby-trap the rest.






Orochimaru attacks Itachi.



Orochimaru ultimately escaped Konoha after fighting Jiraiya, who attempted to reason with him one final time to no avail, leaving his emotionally broken mentor, and former friend's plea for him to reconsider falling on deaf ears.
. Orochimaru soon became affiliated with and joined the elite criminal organisation
Akatsuki
. Orochimaru was then partnered with
Sasori
, with whom he did much good for the organisation.
 He later watched in amazement when Itachi Uchiha joined the organisation. Later, when Orochimaru saw his opportunity to steal his body to gain possession of the Sharingan after gaining intel on him through Sasori via Kabuto,
 Itachi used his Sharingan to stop him from doing so, while also cutting Orochimaru's left hand off to prevent him from breaking the
genjutsu
 he was under, which lead to him leaving Akatsuki to acquire a new body.
 For Orochimaru's defection, Sasori developed a grudge against him and used Kabuto, whom Orochimaru had sent to serve as his spy within Akatsuki, to counter spy as his
sleeper agent
. However, Orochimaru discovered and undid the technique Sasori had used on him.
 In the anime, when tipped off by Kabuto that Sasori was on his trail, Orochimaru chose to use this as an opportunity to test his development of the Summoning: Impure World Reincarnation. Against Sasori's
Third Kazekage

puppet
, Orochimaru summoned the actual
Third Kazekage
 through his technique. While proving his reincarnated ninja being stronger than the
human puppet
, the technique ultimately proved incomplete as the Third Kazekage was able to regain control and break the summoning contract.

After leaving the Akatsuki, Orochimaru continued to build up his network of hideouts, eventually culminating in the formation of Otogakure which greatly grew in influence after just a few years.

Orochimaru had also been on a life-long search for the
Sword of Totsuka
, an ethereal sword, but was unaware that it was in the possession of Itachi's
Susanoo
.
 In the anime, Orochimaru witnessed
Mizuki
 killing a comrade during a mission. Under the pretence as a gift for Mizuki's bold actions, Orochimaru granted him a
specialised cursed seal
. In truth however, it was an incomplete experimental tool that would destroy whoever used it, to which Orochimaru was merely curious as to how the effects would happen on Mizuki.

Personality






Orochimaru upset over Tsunade's loss.



Orochimaru possesses a complex personality; however, more often than not, he was described as "twisted" by a large number of people, including Tsunade. Jiraiya's speculation that the death of his parents while he was young scarred him, along with his sympathy for Tsunade losing
Dan
 in the anime, implies that Orochimaru grew to disdain the fragility of human life and how it affected those still living, which led him to desire immortality. To that end, the primary purpose of Orochimaru's human experimentation is to test what modifications the human body can endure and harness a subject's unique abilities for himself. Once accomplishing this goal, Orochimaru had hoped to be worthy of the title of "
ultimate being
", unable to die and able to achieve his secondary goal to learn every ninja technique in the world, which would normally take many lifetimes to obtain.






Orochimaru's intimidating behaviour.



According to Sasuke, becoming cruel with any good he had as a member of Team Hiruzen long gone, Orochimaru's agenda made him develop a
god complex
 and highly value himself while delighting in striking terror in his first impressions. Though causing conflict to ease his boredom, Orochimaru seems to have no interest in wars started by others.
 He is also somewhat of a perfectionist, always striving to make his various projects succeed, and likewise looks down on those who are sloppy and/or reckless in their own projects.
 His charisma also attracts a number of followers, many of which he would not hesitate to send on potential suicide missions if for his own personal benefit, expressing some remorse if they're unable to properly complete a task, and having no sentimental attachments to any of them despite their value to his goals. Despite this, Orochimaru has genuine interest in the development of his underlings and experiments. Likewise, Orochimaru is treacherous by nature, unhesitant in double-crossing any allies if it would benefit him, having assassinated the
Fourth Kazekage
 to impersonate him so as to making it easier to manipulate
Sunagakure
, while using
Akatsuki
 to help further his own goals and abandoning them once he failed to take
Itachi Uchiha
's body.

Taking Sasuke as an apprentice, and seeing him as a prodigy like himself, Orochimaru intended to take the youth's body to obtain the Sharingan to reach another step in his goal of immortality and learning every technique in the world. This goal has developed to the point of obsession. However, despite knowing that Sasuke was willing to do anything for revenge, including sacrificing his own body, Orochimaru did anticipate treachery from his disciple and showed only a small level of surprise when it actually occurred. What truly surprised Orochimaru was Sasuke's decision to follow his own path and his eventual decision to defend the village he initially swore to destroy, one that Orochimaru openly approved of and was curious to see what would be the end result of.

He also had an initial disdain toward
Naruto Uzumaki
, believing him to be a poor excuse for a ninja until he defeated Kabuto with the Rasengan. Despite attempting to kill Naruto at the time after coming to the realisation that he would become a threat to him in the future, Orochimaru became interested in Naruto's development, provoking Naruto during their battle to draw out his full abilities at the time. During the
war
 seeing Naruto's indomitable willpower and his memories with Jiraiya caused Orochimaru to begin to respect him. In the anime, he was one of people who congratulated Naruto and Hinata on their wedding.
 Though coming to hate his home village, orchestrating a few attempts to destroy it, Orochimaru despised his former Akatsuki colleagues more. Throughout Part II, if Orochimaru was not busy with Sasuke's development, he would try to cripple Akatsuki's operations, as seen in the "Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission" arc and "Three-Tails' Appearance" arc. He expresses delight over the death of Sasori and later convinced Sasuke against killing Team Kakashi so they would thin out Akatsuki's membership.

An aspect of Orochimaru's personality is also his greatest weakness: his arrogance. He truly believed he was immortal at times, attacking recklessly against powerful opponents such as his former teacher and Itachi Uchiha. Both times, he was left crippled in some way since he either wanted to make his opponent suffer, like against Hiruzen, or because he was too uninformed to face his opponent, like against Itachi. Despite his distinct lack of morals, Orochimaru seems to be well-versed in psychological warfare and displays insightful wisdom when disparaging Tobirama for the actions resulting from his policies. He is also amusingly afraid of insects and bugs as seen during Naruto and Hinata's wedding.

After being revived by Sasuke, his personality changed a bit. While he’s still as self-serving as ever, he also realised that copying someone completely was a mistake from his observation of Kabuto and displayed interest in Sasuke's "different path". Wanting to see Sasuke's path, he chose to fight alongside the Uchiha instead of ignoring Madara's war like he planned, and even made it a priority to heal Tsunade and the other Kage after their defeat before hurrying to the battlefield. Orochimaru also seems to genuinely care about Sasuke's wellbeing, as he originally thought it was best to take his time figuring out how to battle Tobi but quickly decided against taking his time when Karin sensed Sasuke was on the verge of death. Orochimaru has also shown signs of regret, seemingly saddened by his childhood friend Jiraiya's death.

Years later, while still as driven as ever to uncover the greatest secrets of life, he apparently now does so in a relatively more humane manner, including reforming his personal shinobi village. Also, while his relationship with the rest of the world is still dubious at best, he has at least developed a relatively trusting relationship between the higher-ups of Konohagakure, and was likewise able to have a "casual" parent-teacher conference about Mitsuki. He is willingly aiding Konoha in research on pressing matters and likewise feels responsible enough to make amends for past mistakes.
 He apparently is on amicable terms with Konoha by sending his son,
Mitsuki
, to the village. In the anime, he also feels indebted to Naruto as the Hokage for watching over Mitsuki.
 Orochimaru's experiences also resulted in him wishing Mitsuki to make his own decisions, admitting that he has high hopes for the boy's natural growth, though he at times used manipulation and deception to put him in a situation where important decisions must be made. He also shows some interest in the respective children of Naruto and Sasuke, particularly intrigued by Boruto sharing the same unwavering spirit and loyalty as his father. Ultimately, his changes have made even the
White Snake Sage
 view Orochimaru as going "soft".

Appearance

Orochimaru's most conspicuous characteristic is his snake-like appearance: he has very pale skin, golden eyes with slitted pupils, purple markings around his eyes and fang-like teeth. He also has pronounced cheekbones and straight waist-length black hair with some locks covering and framing his face or to his shoulders. The various bodies he takes over have each been modified to resemble his original form, except for the height differences. In
Naruto Gaiden
, Orochimaru's facial features soften and somewhat androgynous with his eye markings becoming black. He also wears his hair in a ponytail, allowing two locks to frame the sides of his face. In the manga, his skin-tone becomes noticeably fairer in complexion.

Orochimaru's original appearance.
Orochimaru's Akatsuki appearance.
Orochimaru's New Era appearance.
1/3

Orochimaru usually wears plain grey garbs with a black polo and pants underneath, a thick purple rope belt tied in a large knot behind his back, blue
tomoe
-shaped earrings, and shinobi sandals with bandages around his calves. He is seen wearing a kimono with different colours on several occasions, shown usually in flashbacks or inside his hideouts. During his time with
Akatsuki
, he wore the standard red and black Akatsuki robes with a slate blue ring, which bears the kanji for "sky" or "void" (
空
,
kū
), on his left pinky finger. After countless experiments with his body, his true form became a giant white snake made up of many smaller snakes, with longer, spikier hair, a scaled face with snake-like teeth and a long tongue, black eye markings, and a pointed chin. Years later, he wears a white robe tied at his waist by a dark-coloured sash and a purple rope, blue pants and shirt.

Abilities






Orochimaru using his most powerful technique, the Eight Branches Technique.



Orochimaru is an exceptional shinobi, recognised as one of the strongest to ever exist. One of the only people who could compete against
Hanzō
 in his prime, he became a
Sannin
. At the same time, amongst his team, Orochimaru stood out the most in sheer aptitude as a natural prodigy and the best of his generation,
 earning praise from even
Hashirama Senju
.
 Easily
Kage
-calibre, Orochimaru was once a candidate to be Fourth Hokage. His power is feared throughout the world, such that
Akatsuki
, which he was once a member, saw him as a threat.
 Following the
Konoha invasion
, while failing, Orochimaru's actions left the village crippled for years and the Third Hokage dead. Even crippled and gradually weakening, Orochimaru remained extremely formidable, able to compete against either of his fellow Sannin and even toy with a
Version 2

jinchūriki
 respectively. In the anime, he easily overwhelmed an
Inner
 of
Kara
, despite their monstrous might and
Shinobi-Ware
 modifications.

Chakra and Physical Prowess






Orochimaru's killing intent was powerful enough to paralyze Kakashi with fear.



Orochimaru has large reserves of strong chakra, powerful enough to stir up winds and crack stone.
 Likewise, the intensity of his
killing intent
 can reduce most foes petrified in fear. He can
absorb chakra
 through physical contact, which also grants him their skills and knowledge.
 His chakra control is very advanced, excelling in various chakra applications. Even with his hands
sealed
, leaving him unable to perform handsigns, he can use various powerful techniques with ease. Orochimaru is very adept in taijutsu, able to overwhelm Sasuke in Part I despite his Sharingan-enhanced clarity. He is very strong, able to knock down a tree with a single kick,
 and temporarily stunned a Four-Tailed Naruto with his punch.
 He is also blazingly fast, able to move with such sudden change in direction to leave his opponent's disoriented.

Body Modifications

In his quest for immortality and the perfect body, Orochimaru gained numerous modifications over the years. He can heal from most damage in short periods of time. For more grievous injuries, like bisection, he can
reconnect himself
 or
regurgitate a new, fully-healed body
. Orochimaru's body is also able to
stretch and manipulate its form
 for greater manoeuvrability. His durability allows him to endure being stabbed by the giant Sword of Totsuka and shrug the damage off, and even resist multiple solidly-landed
enhanced
 punches from the already-super strong
Tsunade
 essentially unharmed.






Orochimaru's true form after many experiments.



Orochimaru's modifications have resulted in his true form becoming a
giant white snake
 and a body composed of many smaller snakes that can attack. Its blood is poisonous, evaporating in the air to paralyse all who inhales it. This form is used for the
Living Corpse Reincarnation
, letting him transfer his
soul
 and physical essence into a new body by swallowing that person whole, thereby gaining control of all the new body's abilities while retaining his previous abilities and extending his lifespan. This can only be used once every three years. The souls of the bodies he has taken remain in Orochimaru's subconscious and he can modify his body as he sees fit.

After Orochimaru physically died, as Kabuto heavily modified his body with various genetic sources, including Orochimaru himself, Sasuke used some of Kabuto's flesh as a basis to reconstitute Orochimaru.
 This gave Orochimaru the added benefit of heightened chakra reserves as well as all the various techniques and abilities that were sourced from the
Taka
 and the
Sound Five
. From them, he gained
Sakon and Ukon's Kekkei Genkai
,
Jūgo's Clan's Kekkei Genkai
, the
Shikotsumyaku
, a
variation
 of
Suigetsu
’s
Hydrification Technique
, plus
Karin
’s
Uzumaki life-force and healing powers
. He also later gained the abilities of a
White Zetsu
, which was modified with Hashirama's
DNA
, after taking over its body; this included
accelerated healing
,
perfect shapeshifting into others
, and no need of nourishment.
 Some point after the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, Orochimaru's body became able to
instantly regenerate
 his lost anatomy unfazed.

Ninjutsu

Orochimaru's depth of knowledge and skill in ninjutsu is greater than any other shinobi in history,
 leading to him wielding a vast and unmatched arsenal of styles and techniques. His proficiency with the
Transformation Technique
 can let him stay undetected for long periods; his
fūinjutsu
 skill includes the ability to use the
Five Elements Seal
 to seal off a person's chakra; he can summon
Rashōmon

gates
 to protect himself from enemy attacks; he can
hide within surfaces
 to avoid damage, or use
juinjutsu
 to temporarily paralyse targets.
 The anime shows Orochimaru's advanced prowess in
clone techniques
,

medical ninjutsu
,

space–time ninjutsu
,
 and
barrier ninjutsu
.

Orochimaru is masterful in
wielding
 the legendary
Sword of Kusanagi
, able to compete against his former teacher while wielding his
mighty bo-staff
. The blade is able to extend great distances, cut through almost anything, and even be
remotely controlled
. He normally keeps the blade within a snake's mouth inside his own throat and retrieves it by having it turn into a snake after use.

Nature Transformation






Orochimaru using Wind Release.



Orochimaru can use all five basic
nature transformations
, along with
Yin
 and
Yang Release
.
 With
Wind Release
, he can create a powerful
gust of wind
 and with
Earth Release
 can
travel underground
. In the anime, he can create
mud-based clones
.
 With
Fire Release
 he can easily unleash powerful fire streams. After taking over a White Zetsu body, modified with Hashirama's DNA, Orochimaru gained access to the latter's
Wood Release
 — a simultaneous mixture of earth and
water
.

Summoning






Orochimaru summons Manda.



Orochimaru has an affinity for snakes, using the unique arm tattoo to quickly
summon
 them for assistance, his largest and strongest being
Manda
. He can eject snakes from
his sleeves
 or
mouth
 to strike with; the snakes can sprout blades from their own mouths for deadlier effect.
 He can even turn his lower body into a
snake's tail
, increasing his speed and mobility in battle.
 Orochimaru's ultimate snake-related technique is the
Eight Branches Technique
, where he transforms into an eight-headed, eight-tailed giant serpent with size superior to that of Manda.






Orochimaru reincarnates the deceased Hokage.



Orochimaru can perform the
Summoning: Impure World Reincarnation
, having further refined the
kinjutsu
 developed by
Tobirama Senju
. Upon reviving the dead, he can implant them with special tags that erase their personalities and/or free will, granting him complete control over their actions. Originally, despite improving this technique's quality compared to its creator, Orochimaru's reincarnated soldiers were still considerably diminished in overall capacities compared to when alive. During the Fourth Shinobi World War, after Orochimaru's own capacities and knowledge of the technique were further augmented from Kabuto's essence, his prowess was also increased, as he revived the first four Hokage with nearly their full power and could use Hashirama's cells to strengthen his control.

Senjutsu






Orochimaru's juinjutsu.



During his research of
Jūgo's clan
, Orochimaru eventually tracked down the power source at the
Ryūchi Cave
 and
senjutsu
. Although his host body was not strong enough to enter
Sage Mode
,
 Orochimaru developed another use for senjutsu chakra: his
cursed seals
.
 These seals contain some of Orochimaru's senjutsu chakra mixed with the enzyme produced by Jūgo, triggering a change similar to
Sage Transformation
, but with different side-effects. These cursed seals also enhance the power of one's techniques,
 and serve as an extension of and anchor to Orochimaru's consciousness, allowing him to observe events through anyone branded by the seal. He can even be revived any number of times from a cursed seal by using the
Evil Releasing Method
, provided there is a proper DNA source as a basis.
 He also created the
Mind Awakening Pill
 to help speed up the cursed seal's progression.

Intelligence






Orochimaru performing an experiment to study jutsu.



Orochimaru has acquired a vast amount of information of the shinobi world from his time with organisations such as
Root
 and
Akatsuki
, having set up a network of fully supplied hideouts throughout various countries. He has great charisma, enough to manipulate people into becoming his willing servants, providing insight into their past and promising them power in order to gain their loyalty. In battle, he can quickly deduce the workings of an enemy's fighting style and respond accordingly.

Wanting to decipher all of the world's secrets, Orochimaru has conducted extensive research and numerous experiments on himself and the DNA of other individuals to comprehend, attain, or reproduce their abilities. Research of abilities such as
Hashirama Senju
's
Wood Release
 and
Jūgo
's
Sage Transformation
 have allowed him to recreate those same abilities, or at least produce
techniques
 based off of them, into
other

people
.
 From experimentation on
Shin Uchiha
, Orochimaru has become more knowledgeable of human genetics, facilitating his overall research in developing perfect
clones
 of himself, which he considers to be of a higher class than the
Shadow Clone Technique
 as they cannot be dispersed.
 This research eventually resulted in genetically perfect
synthetic

humans
.
 Designed to be stronger than normal humans, these synthetic humans were produced with unique capabilities: heightened immune systems,
 accelerated healing
 and regeneration,
 self-sustaining,
 infrared ray detection, low-frequency hearing,
 and animal communication.
 He has also devised a
juinjutsu
 in order to conceal the secrets of their composition.

In the anime, based on his research of the
Demonic Statue of the Outer Path
, Orochimaru designed build a
sophisticated robot
 with advanced weaponry and the ability to consume tailed beast chakra.
 He could also create
genjutsu pills
 that can subdue a jinchūriki and their tailed beast simultaneously, and even cultivate cells of the tailed beast to create pseudo-jinchūriki.

Stats

Databook

Ninjutsu

Taijutsu

Genjutsu

Intelligence

Strength

Speed

Stamina

Hand seals

Total

Third

5

3.5

5

5

3.5

4.5

3.5

5

35

Part I

Chūnin Exams

Main article:
Chūnin Exams






Orochimaru branding Sasuke.



For a while, since leaving Konoha, Orochimaru left his hometown alone until the chance to destroy it presented itself. The opportunity presented itself when he forms a partnership with the
Fourth Kazekage
 of
Sunagakure
, who desired Konoha's destruction like him, planning their invasion during the
Chūnin Exams
. Orochimaru also used the invasion as an opportunity to test
Sasuke Uchiha
, Itachi's younger brother, if he can be of use as a vessel. Prior to the commencement of the second part of the Chūnin Exams, Orochimaru murdered a team of
Kusagakure
 genin to impersonate its leader
Shiore
 and infiltrate the
Forest of Death
. Using a snake summon to separate Naruto from
Team 7
, the disguised Orochimaru subjected Sasuke to his
Killing Intent
 with the youth unable to fight due to the fear instilled into him. However, the fear subsided with Naruto's timely appearance and convincing Sasuke to muster his courage before Orochimaru interferes with the
jinchūriki
's seal while knocking him out for the duration of the fight. After being subjected to Sasuke's
Dragon Fire Technique
 as it partially burned off his disguise, Orochimaru expresses pride in Sasuke's abilities before branding his target with his
Cursed Seal of Heaven
 and taking his leave.

As he sends Team Dosu as sacrificial lambs to test Sasuke, having Kabuto accompany Team 7 to witness Sasuke use the curse seal's power, Orochimaru is confronted by Anko as he tells her that the Konoha will continue the exams under threat of his retaliation if they cancel it. During the preliminary rounds of the Chūnin Exams, Orochimaru disguised himself as the leader of his genin team to watch Sasuke's performance against
Yoroi Akadō
 and more obsessive upon seeing him suppress the Cursed Seal with sheer will. After
Kakashi
 was able to seal away the mark on Sasuke, Orochimaru confronted him. He made no attempt to hide his envy of Kakashi's Sharingan, and noted before leaving that Sasuke will eventually come to him seeking power.

Konoha Crush

Main article:
Konoha Crush






Orochimaru summons Hashirama and Tobirama.



Eventually, some time before the day of the final round matches, with all attack preparations complete, Orochimaru murdered the
Fourth Kazekage
 and assumed his identity to sit next to Hiruzen to oversee the proceedings. However, the
Konoha Crush
 began, Orochimaru makes his move to kill his former master. Having the Sound Four discard the guises of the Kazekage's bodyguards, Orochimaru has them erect a barrier to hold the other Konoha ninja back to prevent any interference. Having regretting letting Orochimaru escape years earlier, Hiruzen agrees to battle his former pupil. Exhilarated that he could finally fight his former teacher, Orochimaru used
Impure World Reincarnation
 to summon
Hashirama Senju
 and his brother
Tobirama
 to have the first two Hokage to attack their successor. During the fight, Orochimaru reveals to Hiruzen the fruits of his labour from mastering
Living Corpse Reincarnation
 with the host body he took after his brush-in with Itachi and his intention to make Sasuke into his next host.






Orochimaru's arms being sealed by Hiruzen.



Horrified on how far Orochimaru has truly went, with both his age and the regenerative abilities of the two first Hokage placing him in a grand disadvantage, Hiruzen resolves to stop Orochimaru with the
Dead Demon Consuming Seal
, sealing away the souls of the two Hokage prior to going after Orochimaru himself. Not wishing to join the three Hokages' souls in being trapped within the Reaper's stomach, Orochimaru stabbed Hiruzen through the back of his chest with his
Sword of Kusanagi
 before the weakened Hiruzen resolves to only seal the part of Orochimaru's soul within his arms. Cursing the dying Hiruzen for robbing him of his use of ninjutsu, Orochimaru is carried off by the Sound Four with the invasion halted. Afterwards, Sunagakure broke ties with Orochimaru upon discovering the corpse of the Fourth Kazekage.

Search for Tsunade

Main article:
Search for Tsunade






Orochimaru battling Jiraiya.



After barely being able to stand the pain from his rotting arms, Orochimaru plans to have his condition healed by appealing Tsunade with the offer to reincarnate her
Nawaki
 and
Dan
 to win her cooperation. However, though she seemed to agree, Tsunade had actually intended to kill him to ensure he never attacks Konoha again. Kabuto intervened before she could do so, intending to force her to help before Jiraiya, Shizune and Naruto soon arrived to her aid. While Orochimaru and Jiraiya (having earlier been drugged by Tsunade and thus unable to properly perform techniques) faced off, Kabuto battled Naruto before being defeated. Seeing this and seeing a potential threat, Orochimaru resolves to kill Naruto before Tsunade teams up with Jiraiya to face their former teammate. Despite summoning
Manda
, managing to hide his condition from the giant serpent as he fights Gamabunta, Orochimaru is forced to give up healing his arms and just take a new host body.

Sasuke Recovery Mission

Main article:
Sasuke Recovery Mission






Orochimaru's body rotting.



Even though he had hoped to wait for Sasuke to grow older, Orochimaru sent his Sound Four to retrieve and bring Sasuke to him. He held out for as long as he could, anticipating Sasuke's arrival, but the pain in his arms became too unbearable so he is given no choice but to take the body of
Gen'yūmaru
, whom Kabuto had prepared earlier. After agreeing to release Gen'yūmaru's clansmen in return for his sacrifice, Orochimaru proceeds to use Living Corpse Reincarnation on his new host. Though the act undid most of the damage caused by the
Dead Demon Consuming Seal
, it still left Orochimaru incapable of using techniques requiring hand seals.






Orochimaru after possessing Gen'yūmaru.



While still waiting for Sasuke, bandaged up within his new host with Kabuto by his side, Orochimaru comments that either
Jirōbō
 or
Kidōmaru
 would be slowing down the group, but expressed doubts about
Sakon
's strength, which Kabuto brings up, stating
Tayuya
 was just as strong, and
Kimimaro
, lamenting that the latter's illness made it impossible to have him as a perfect vessel as originally intended. But with Kimimaro's death, Orochimaru stated that he no longer cared about his previous protégé and instead commented his desire for Sasuke. As he is stuck in Gen'yūmaru's body for the next three years, Orochimaru decided to start training Sasuke once he finally arrived, hoping to shape him into the ideal host while being highly impressed and excited by the chakra that Sasuke revealed in response to Kabuto's threat for not giving Orochimaru his respect.

Part II

Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission

Main article:
Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission

Two and a half years later, a
Yamato
-led
Team Kakashi
, hoping to find Sasuke, learned of an opportunity from a dying Sasori that he was meeting with his spy, Kabuto. Posing as Sasori within his
Hiruko
 puppet, the group's temporary leader Yamato met with Kabuto while the others watched. However, Orochimaru arrived as Kabuto destroyed the Hiruko, with Orochimaru clarifying to a confused Kabuto that Sasori never came as the rest of Team Kakashi reveal themselves to fight the two ninja. Although he was surprised to see Yamato has survived his experiments involving Hashirama's DNA, Orochimaru was more interested to see if Naruto had become as strong as "his Sasuke". When Naruto assumed his
three-tailed form
 in response, Orochimaru eluded Naruto, enjoying the battle while provoking Naruto further.






Orochimaru vs. Naruto.



It was only after Naruto submitted to Kurama's influence and entered his mindless
four-tailed form
 that Orochimaru took the fight seriously due to Naruto now being able to kill him and his host body beginning to reject him after he used his Kusanagi to force Naruto away. While he briefly recuperated, Orochimaru was approached by
Sai
, who made an offer on behalf of
Danzō
 to work together in destroying Konoha. Intrigued, Orochimaru and Kabuto took him back to their base. Later, after the rest of Team Kakashi arrived at the lair and Sai teamed up with them, Orochimaru confronted Sai and Naruto to question Sai about his loyalties. He fled before he could be drawn into another fight and later kept Sasuke from killing the team, noting that they might kill another Akatsuki member like they had done with Sasori.

Three-Tails' Appearance

Main article:
Three-Tails' Appearance






Orochimaru tests Sasuke's abilites against a hundred men.



In the anime, sensing that the time was close approaching to change vessels, Orochimaru sent Kabuto to find
Guren
, so that she could help with preparations for the process. During this time, Orochimaru was also experimenting on
Yūkimaru
, a child with unusual powers. Orochimaru eventually decided it was time to test Sasuke's abilities and watched in awe as he defeated an army of ninja, without killing any, and without receiving a scratch. As Sasuke walked off, Orochimaru admitted that while he used to be recognised as a genius, Sasuke's powers far surpassed his own when he was Sasuke's age.






Orochimaru offers Guren a chance to prove herself.



Noticing that Guren was watching, he offered her another chance to prove herself worthy as Orochimaru's next vessel, which she was delighted with. Orochimaru teamed her up with Yūkimaru, noting that their two abilities should work well together. Later, it was revealed that Orochimaru also chose Guren because he knew she would eventually grow attached to Yūkimaru, which he appeared to have used for. He ordered Kabuto to be ready to eliminate her should she betray him.

Later, after receiving word that the Konoha shinobi were complicating things, Orochimaru decided he might have to intervene personally. After Yūkimaru's loss of his abilities and Guren's supposed death, Kabuto reported back to his master about the failed operation. Orochimaru dismissed it as nothing more than a minor setback, saying that once he had Sasuke's body, it wouldn't make any difference.

Itachi Pursuit Mission

Main article:
Itachi Pursuit Mission






Sasuke attacks Orochimaru.



On the verge of being rejected by his current body, Orochimaru contemplated about the best way to take Sasuke's body. In the anime, he and Kabuto recapped all the events that led to Sasuke defecting and how much he had improved since. Before he could formulate his plan, however, Sasuke attacked him, having decided that Orochimaru was unworthy of having an Uchiha's body, and tried to kill him with
Chidori Sharp Spear
 but only succeeds in piercing his arm. Orochimaru proceeded to reveal his true body, a large white snake made of a multitude of smaller snakes in order to initiate the body-switch process.






Sasuke defeats Orochimaru.



Sasuke, however, cuts up Orochimaru's large snake body, only to realise that the vaporising blood was turning into a paralysis-type poison. Orochimaru then successfully started the body-switch process. Sasuke stopped the process like Itachi had done years earlier but took it a step further by turning the switch against Orochimaru, absorbing him into his own body. Sasuke gained access to some of Orochimaru's abilities but, at the same time, had to dedicate some of his chakra to suppressing Orochimaru. Kabuto later took Orochimaru remains and transfused his blood into himself, giving him access to Orochimaru's abilities.

Fated Battle Between Brothers

Main article:
Fated Battle Between Brothers






Orochimaru pierced by the Totsuka Sword.



During the battle with Itachi, Sasuke ran low on chakra and Orochimaru was able to emerge from his cursed seal using his signature
Eight Branches Technique
. He marvelled at the fact that he would finally have the chance to take over Sasuke's body, but was immediately pierced through by the blade held by Itachi's
Susanoo
. At first Orochimaru boasted that it would take more than that to kill him, but he soon realised that he had been pierced by the
Totsuka Sword
 that he himself had been searching for. Orochimaru was then sealed away by Itachi's Susanoo, which had the effect of removing Sasuke's cursed seal in the process. Three white snakes escaped from Orochimaru's body as he was sealed, but at least one of these snakes was subsequently killed by the black flames of
Amaterasu
.

Fourth Shinobi World War: Climax

Main article:
Fourth Shinobi World War: Climax






Sasuke revives Orochimaru.



Following Kabuto's defeat, and his reunion with
Suigetsu Hōzuki
 and
Jūgo
, Sasuke learns of the scroll they found at one of Orochimaru's hideouts and resolves to revive him for answers following what he learned from Itachi. Sasuke succeeds in reviving Orochimaru by pulling his consciousness out of Anko's cursed seal and transferring it into the physical form Jūgo provided by absorbing some of Kabuto's modified flesh. Despite Suigetsu's fears of his next action as he reclaims the rest of his chakra that Kabuto took from him, Orochimaru explains that he is neither interested in Tobi's war nor strong enough to even attempt to take Sasuke's body if he wanted to. However, Orochimaru, noting the change in his former student, does agree to take Sasuke to one who has the answers he wants.






Orochimaru releases the sealed souls from the Shinigami.



Arriving in
Konohagakure
, Orochimaru and the others sense
Naruto
's chakra from a great distance away. Noting that Sasuke was annoyed by this, Orochimaru pressed on with the group at the young man's behest. He led them to the
Uzumaki Clan's Mask Storage Temple
 to pick up a mask from the ruins, and then takes the group to the underground hall in the
Naka Shrine
. Orochimaru proceeded to don the mask which invoked the
Shinigami
 to possess his body. Orochimaru then proceeded to cut open the Shinigami's stomach, a wound reflected on his own body, to release the trapped contents inside the Shinigami.






Orochimaru prepares to summon the four deceased Hokage.



With his arms restored as well, Orochimaru performed the
Impure World Reincarnation
 using four of the six White Zetsu clone
spores
 that Jūgo activated from Sasuke's body. Ordering Suigetsu and Jūgo hold two of the Zetsu down, the remaining four Zetsu are used as the bodies for the reincarnation of the previous four
Hokage
. To escape death, Orochimaru transferred his being in the White Zetsu Suigetsu was holding down by slithering into its mouth. Once the Hokage were reincarnated, revealing he researched the means to undo the Dead Demon Consuming Seal, Orochimaru explained that his reasons for bringing them back were for them to aid Sasuke by giving him the information he desired. When Orochimaru accused the
Second Hokage
 of being the one to cause the coup d'etat to surface, he was rebuffed by the Hokage who later explained that he had tried to save the Uchiha from
themselves
. When Tobirama later declared that he was heading to the battlefield, Orochimaru's new vessel provided him with access to Hashirama's cells, allowing him to bind the Hokage. Noting that Hashirama had broken his control over him, Orochimaru is told by the First that he would first free Sasuke from the darkness which surrounded him. During this course of events, Sasuke had a flashback about a conversation he and Orochimaru had as they made their way to Konoha where Sasuke stated that he does not believe Orochimaru's reasons to destroy Konoha were on a whim.

After hearing Sasuke's decision to protect the village, Orochimaru announces that he will also help in the war effort against Madara. When Hiruzen asks him after why he changed his mind after all these years, Orochimaru explains that he made an error in judgement from watching Kabuto act in his stead and is now interested to see the result of Sasuke's "different path" of not letting those who sacrificed themselves for the village go to waste.

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Main article:
Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki






Orochimaru and his group arrive to the battlefield.



Later, Orochimaru arrived to the place where Tsunade and the other Kage were left severely wounded, alongside
Suigetsu
 and
Karin
, commenting that Tsunade was in a rather bad shape. He broke up the arguing Karin and Suigetsu, and ordered them to help
Katsuyu
 heal Tsunade. Later, Orochimaru, along with the five Kage, Suigetsu, and Karin, arrive at the battlefield, where the entire Allied Shinobi Forces are struggling against
Obito Uchiha
, who recently became the
jinchūriki
 of the
Ten-Tails
. As Obito began the final stages of his and Madara's grand plan: "Infinite Tsukuyomi", Hashirama had
Ino Yamanaka
 telepathically link everyone via the
Mind Body Transmission Technique
 to inform everyone about the plan as well as try and rally the shinobi to continue fighting. While Hashirama's words fail to inspire them, Naruto's memories are conveyed to them via Ino's telepathy. The Sannin looked on solemnly as Naruto remembered the
memorial
 he erected for Jiraiya.

As Sasuke had Jūgo transfer some of his
natural energy
 into the Uchiha, who immediately channelled it into his complete
Susanoo
, Orochimaru watched on, greatly impressed at how far Sasuke has come and notes that he still had much room to grow. Later, while asserting that he had no interest in the war, Orochimaru noted that Obito's plan would interfere with his experiments, he then decided to heed his former sensei's urgings and participate in the war. With his
assistance
, Hiruzen was able to
destroy
 the branches of the Ten-Tails into pieces. As Naruto began his great tug-of-war against Obito, Orochimaru alongside Hiruzen watched on as the tree's flower halted its blooming.






Orochimaru immobilises Tobi.



After a momentary lull in the battle after Obito is defeated, the Allied Forces were attacked by
Tobi
, who created an
enormous wooden statue
 to assault them. Orochimaru teamed up with his former subordinates to effectively subdue their attacker in order to make a break for Sasuke's location. He was then impressed by Karin's ability to use the chakra chains and he was reminded of
Kushina Uzumaki
. As they raced towards where Karin last senses Sasuke, Orochimaru noticed that the young woman was expending herself. Contemplating the situation, he wondered solemnly if this was really the end for Sasuke.






Orochimaru and Jūgo trapped in the Infinite Tsukuyomi.



Upon reaching Sasuke, they found Kabuto merging with Sasuke, seemingly to assimilate the Uchiha. When asking his former right-hand man why he came, Kabuto simply explained that his experience under the effects of
Izanami
 made him rediscover his true identity as simply Kabuto Yakushi and acknowledged what he always sought was back at the Konoha orphanage. Wanting to make up for his mistakes, starting with healing Sasuke through his medical ninjutsu and instructions from Tobirama. Eventually, Kabuto succeeded in healing Sasuke, who quickly returned to his feet and was ready to resume the battle. Orochimaru was later caught in Madara's
Infinite Tsukuyomi
.

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Main article:
Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Ultimately, he and the rest of the world are freed from the genjutsu by Naruto and Sasuke after they ended the war.

Blank Period

After the war's conclusion, Orochimaru would return to conducting his genetic experiments. He also formed a truce with Konoha and the Five Great Nations that he would be pardoned for his crimes under the condition he is placed under strict 24-hour surveillance by Konoha
jōnin
. Despite the strict watch, Orochimaru was allowed to move freely as the shinobi that watched over Orochimaru were ordered not to make any form of contact with him until he made a move against Konoha or did anything suspicious. He was even allowed to move freely in and out of Konoha.

Sasuke Shinden: Book of Sunrise

Main articles:
Sasuke Shinden (novel)
 and
Sasuke Shinden (anime)

Orochimaru meets with Sasuke, who is gathering information on the
Dark Thunder Group
, for the first time in a few years since the war. Orochimaru tells Sasuke to meet with
En Oyashiro
, who is a
medical-nin
 but is a notorious
kekkei genkai
 collector, because he may have connections to the group since its leader is a kekkei genkai owner. They take a boat to En's "Coliseum", where a tournament is being hosted with En's clients attending to purchase the winning shinobi. Orochimaru reveals to him that Sasuke is a kekkei genkai owner himself, causing Sasuke to be forced into participating in the tournament.

New Era






Orochimaru and Log discussing Mitsuki.



In the following years, between gaining a new appreciation for natural development of people and forming a truce between Konohagakure, Orochimaru ultimately reestablished
Otogakure
 as a legitimate shinobi village.
 At some point, Orochimaru created multiple synthetic humans such as
Log
 and
Mitsuki
 using his genetic source with new cloning technology.
 Later, Orochimaru and Log orchestrated a test for Mitsuki to unknowingly participate in, which was devised for his son to find a third option that neither Orochimaru or Log presented him. Having failed the test fives times, Orochimaru used a drug each time to remove Mitsuki's memories. On the sixth attempt, Mitsuki passed the test by rebelling against the pair to forge his own destiny himself, resulting in him wanting to migrate to Konoha.
 Supporting his decision, Orochimaru asked Naruto to take his son in, which the Hokage allowed, as it was believed Orochimaru's research would prove useful to Konoha in time,
 as well as being critical to the shinobi world when the time came to battle the
Ōtsutsuki clan
.

Sarada Uchiha Arc

Main article:
Naruto Gaiden: The Seventh Hokage and the Scarlet Spring

Fifteen years after the Fourth Shinobi World War, Orochimaru revealed himself to Sasuke and Naruto when the former demanded to meet him, wanting to inquire about
Shin Uchiha
. Naruto commented on his youthful looks, to which Orochimaru replied to "not stress on the details". After a talk, he explained that Shin was, in fact, an experiment of his in cloning technology and that he would be glad if they took him off his hands. He then went on to lecture about the ethics of cloning. Once he finished his story, Orochimaru happily decided to tell Sasuke all he knew about Shin's whereabouts in the hope of the true Uchiha killing Shin. Later on, Orochimaru commented on the possibility of
Sakura Uchiha
 being already dead, to which Sasuke disagreed.

School Trip Arc

Main article:
School Trip Arc

In the anime, when learning of civil unrest in Kirigakure and rumours of the
Sixth Mizukage
 killing off people against the peaceful expansion of his village, Orochimaru sent Suigetsu to investigate, hoping to find useful new allies. Ultimately, Suigetsu reported that the horrific rumours on Chōjūrō were in fact done by
Shizuma Hoshigaki
, who used the Mizukage as a diversion for his plans at a coup d'état, which were stopped with the aid of
Boruto Uzumaki
. Orochimaru surmised that Chōjūrō decided to keep the actions quiet in fear of regressing the village to its darker times. While realising that Suigetsu got directly involved in exposing Shizuma's actions, he decided to keep quiet about it, instead marvelling at how much Boruto was like his father.

Graduation Exams Arc

Main article:
Graduation Exams Arc






Orochimaru meets with Naruto.



In the anime, as Konoha's
Academy
 classes began preparing for graduation exams, Orochimaru
stealthily
 came to the village with Yamato, to avoid any commotion from villagers still uneasy about his presence. Meeting with Naruto in his
office
, they discussed Danzō's
research
 he was analysing and Mitsuki. Afterwards, he attended Mitsuki's parent-teacher conference, where he and his son met with
Shino Aburame
. Wanting to become a Konoha shinobi, Orochimaru allowed Mitsuki to stay in the village to become one.

Versus Momoshiki Arc

Main articles:
Boruto: Naruto the Movie
 and
Versus Momoshiki Arc

In the anime, having contacted Mitsuki through their snakes, Orochimaru instructed him to not reveal his true strength, as Mitsuki wouldn't be able to remain in Konoha. Upon
Team Konohamaru
 capturing a bear within Konoha, Orochimaru overlooked the genin completing their mission from atop a building.

Sasuke Shinden: The Teacher's Star Pupil

Main article:
Sasuke Shinden: The Teacher's Star Pupil

On a moonlit night, Orochimaru decides to visit Mitsuki in Konoha. When he finds Mitsuki, Mitsuki is in the middle of practicing with the
Lorentz Gun
. Although Mitsuki isn't able to perform it successfully, Orochimaru is nevertheless impressed by his progress, believing such skill is proof of being Orochimaru's son. Mitsuki is not comforted by this, as his Lorentz Gun still pales in comparison to Sasuke's, who taught it to him in the first place. Orochimaru stirs at the mention of Sasuke and tries to casually offer to accompany Mitsuki the next time he trains with Sasuke. Mitsuki tells Orochimaru to stop.

Chōchō Arc

Main article:
Chōchō Arc






Orochimaru training Mitsuki.



In the anime, Mitsuki brought Orochimaru a scroll for him to sign so he could partake in an upcoming mission. Before which, they had a sparring session. While Orochimaru decisively won, he applauded Mitsuki's improvement. When Mitsuki asked if he should refer to Orochimaru as his father or mother, Orochimaru said it was irrelevant as he has been all kinds of entities over the years and all that matters is one's core.

Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc

Main article:
Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc

In the anime, when Mitsuki apparently betrayed and deserted Konohagakure, Orochimaru was confronted by Yamato about it. Orochimaru insisted he was clueless about the situation. Later, Orochimaru found
Boruto Uzumaki
 and
Sarada Uchiha
 sneaking into his base. The boy wanted to ask Orochimaru about a last message from Mitsuki through a snake, which simply stated that "It is his will". After doing tests on the snake, Orochimaru concluded that there was no apparent hidden message, but suggested going to
White Snake Sage
 who might know more. After all this, Orochimaru was left intrigued, both by his son's random actions and Boruto's unwavering loyalty to Mitsuki like Naruto's to Sasuke from years ago.

Afterwards, knowing that Konohagakure would send a team to retrieve Boruto and Sarada, Orochimaru sent Suigetsu (while concealing his identity) to stall the two genin's pursuers long enough for them to reach
Ryūchi Cave
. Later, learning about
Ōnoki
's passing and Mitsuki confirmed loyalty to Konohagakure by working to stop the
Fabrications
, Orochimaru was pleased to see how well Mitsuki was developing as a person in finding more about his true self. At the same time, Orochimaru was concerned when learning that the investigation into the development of the Fabrications was covered up by an unknown person, leading Orochimaru to wonder who else besides himself could create artificial humans that advanced.

Jūgo Arc

Main article:
Jūgo Arc

In the anime, when Jūgo abruptly left the base to deal with a mysterious outbreak of cursed seals infecting wildlife, Orochimaru tasked Suigetsu and Karin with retrieving him.

Later, Mitsuki came to Orochimaru to discuss his recent memories about
Ōnoki
 and how they began flashing through his mind as dreams. The Sannin scanned his son's mind to research the memories with Log. There, they learned about how Mitsuki went through great personal discoveries about his being, wondering what choices are really his own and if he is on the right path. While Orochimaru was proud to see how much he was maturing into a true human being, he was concerned how the still-raw child was reacting to such personal loss. Log voiced his disapproval of erasing Mitsuki's memories after how far they had come. Ultimately, they gave Mitsuki a choice to continue enduring these painful memories or have his mind reset to before he ever even knew about Boruto. Mitsuki decided to keep his memories and move ahead, impressing Orochimaru.

Kara Actuation Arc

Main article:
Kara Actuation Arc

In the anime, after pressured into using his
Sage Mode

Transformation
 to save his team-mates against
Deepa
, Mitsuki's body began breaking down from over-usage. He was brought to Log and Orochimaru for treatment. Orochimaru was dismayed at the severity of Mitsuki's condition, noting that various organs would have to replaced from scratch. Log noted that Orochimaru was very concerned for Mitsuki, who simply said that he has invested so much time and resources into creating Mitsuki, not wanting it to be a wasted effort.

Later, Log investigated and learned that the Hashirama Cell Kara acquired was actually stolen from one of Orochimaru's old laboratories. Despite this news, Orochimaru simply said not to bother taking any action, as the First Hokage's genes weren't easily harnessed. When Mitsuki regained consciousness, he asked the boy if it was worth the risk of dying to save his friends, testing Mitsuki's resolve.

Later, Orochimaru found Suigetsu detaining the genin of
Team 5
. Orochimaru stopped the battle, not wanting his equipment to get any more damage. He asked what they wanted from him, truly intrigued by why such inexperienced genin would approach him. His intrigue quickly turned to shock and dismay as they simply requested for his autograph. While finding the request trivial and annoyed at the stats the trading card had on him, Orochimaru agreed to it. As he left, the genin asked about Mitsuki's condition, to which Orochimaru said he would be fine. Noting to himself that Mitsuki had made more friends than just Boruto, Orochimaru was pleased at his son's development in Konohagakure.

As Mitsuki's replacement organs were almost viable, Suigetsu returned with news of Mitsuki's team. He revealed they all returned the
Land of Valleys
. While the genin and jōnin respectively went for different reasons, Suigetsu suspected that there was a connection between the two. As Suigetsu's speculations roused Mitsuki into leaving prematurely, an annoyed Orochimaru decided to punish Suigetsu for his reckless words by using him as a test subject for another experiment.

Later, after Mitsuki's recovery was sped up by Log donating his own organs, Orochimaru decided to investigate matters in the Land of Valleys personally with Mitsuki. Upon arriving, he discovered the sprouting of the
God Tree
 created by
Victor
. He found
Mugino
 attempting to leave the country safely with the unconscious
Valleys Daimyō
. He was stopped by a
Kara

Outer
, who was instantly defeated by Orochimaru after his sudden appearance.






Orochimaru fighting Victor.



Orochimaru confronted Victor as he was battling Konohamaru. While Konohamaru was shocked by his arrival, Orochimaru insisted that he was only here to make Victor pay for stealing from him. Victor remained defiant and attacked Orochimaru, showing off his advanced skill set. Orochimaru however easily repelled Victor's efforts, pressuring him into seeking the God Tree's fruit for more power. Victor's efforts ultimate backfired as the God Tree ensnared him. Orochimaru mocked Victor's scientific efforts and obliviousness, noting that Victor's God Tree was a crude imitation, unable to actually produce fruit. Orochimaru proceeded to destroy the God Tree. After succeeding and the enemies defeated, Orochimaru decided to leave, noting that he already informed Naruto about the events.

Influence

Orochimaru apparently kept tabs on
Akatsuki
, as Kabuto was knowledgeable about
Zetsu
, and Tobi's machination to revive the
Ten-Tails
.
 Even when removed from reality by Itachi, being an extensive researcher, the notes he left behind were still coveted as vast stores of knowledge to those fortunate enough to come across them, as seen when one of his hidden rooms is found by Suigetsu and Jūgo, the former of which finds information he believes can impact the war.

In
the anime
, Kabuto used Orochimaru's cells in order to create
special snakes
 which could multiply at a rapid rate and merge into either
a clone of another living being using a genetic sample
 or
a larger serpent
 for combat. The clone snakes are first used to create a clone of
Hidan
, and then later
a clone of Naruto with Kurama's chakra
.

In his absence, Kabuto used Orochimaru's remains from his battle with Sasuke to integrate his master's DNA into himself in order to surpass him.
 Having also assimilated the DNA of
Sakon and Ukon
 to procure their abilities, Kabuto uses the twins'
Attack of the Twin Demons
 to produce a construct of Orochimaru that transforms into his White Snake form and lunges at an opponent. However, Orochimaru lived on, in a sense, through
cursed seals
 and Kabuto after the latter integrated Orochimaru's DNA into himself.
 Knowing the nature of the seal to contain parts of Orochimaru's consciousness, Sasuke revived Orochimaru by transferring a portion of Orochimaru's DNA which was retrieved from Kabuto's modified body into Anko's
Cursed Seal of Heaven
.

In Other Media

Movies

Naruto Shippūden the Movie: Bonds

Main article:
Naruto Shippūden the Movie: Bonds

Orochimaru made a small appearance along with Kabuto. Feeling that his time was running out before he had to transfer his soul again, but fearing that the repeated use of his techniques was starting to be too taxing, he ordered Sasuke to retrieve a man named
Shinnō
, who had developed his own immortality technique. In the end, Sasuke failed to get the man, but did retrieve the scroll containing the technique's information. Orochimaru noticed that Sasuke's demeanour seemed shaken from the mission.

Video Games

Orochimaru is a playable character in the following video games:

Game name
Japanese release
English release
Jump Ultimate Stars
23 November 2006
Jumputi Heroes
28 March 2018
Naruto Mobile
2016
2016
Naruto RPG 2: Chidori vs. Rasengan
14 July 2005
Naruto Shippūden: Clash of Ninja Revolution 3
17 November 2009
Naruto Shippūden: Gekitō Ninja Taisen! EX 2
29 November 2007
Naruto Shippūden: Gekitō Ninja Taisen! EX 3
27 November 2008
Naruto Shippūden: Gekitō Ninja Taisen! Special
2 December 2010
Naruto Shippūden: Ninja Destiny 2
24 April 2008
15 September 2009
Naruto Shippūden: Ninja Destiny 3
28 April 2009
Naruto Shippūden: Shinobi Rumble
22 April 2010
8 February 2011
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja 4
5 April 2007
24 March 2009
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja 5
20 December 2007
27 November 2009
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Blazing
14 July 2016
24 August 2016
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Heroes 3
10 December 2009
11 May 2010
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 2
21 October 2010
19 October 2010
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 3
18 April 2013
5 March 2013
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 4
4 February 2016
9 February 2016
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm Generations
23 February 2012
13 March 2012
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm Revolution
11 September 2014
16 September 2014
Naruto to Boruto: Shinobi Striker
30 August 2018
31 August 2018
Naruto x Boruto: Ninja Tribes
June 2019
June 2019
Naruto x Boruto: Ninja Voltage
22 November 2017
22 November 2017
Naruto x Boruto: Ultimate Ninja Storm Connections
16 November 2023
17 November 2023
Naruto: Clash of Ninja 2
4 December 2003
26 September 2006
Naruto: Clash of Ninja Revolution
23 October 2007
Naruto: Clash of Ninja Revolution 2
21 October 2008
Naruto: Gekitō Ninja Taisen! 3
20 November 2004
Naruto: Gekitō Ninja Taisen! 4
21 November 2005
Naruto: Konoha Senki
12 September 2003
Naruto: Ninja Council 3
27 April 2006
22 May 2007
Naruto: Ninja Destiny
14 December 2006
20 March 2008
Naruto: Path of the Ninja 2
13 July 2006
14 October 2008
Naruto: Rise of a Ninja
30 October 2007
Naruto: Shinobi Collection
2014
Naruto: Shinobi Collection Shippū Ranbu
27 July 2015
Naruto: The Broken Bond
18 November 2008
Naruto: Ultimate Ninja
23 October 2003
26 June 2006
Naruto: Ultimate Ninja 2
30 September 2004
12 June 2007
Naruto: Ultimate Ninja 3
22 December 2005
25 March 2008
Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Heroes
28 August 2007
Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Heroes 2: The Phantom Fortress
30 March 2006
24 June 2008
Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Online
14 April 2013
20 July 2016
Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Storm
15 January 2009
4 November 2008

Orochimaru is featured in the online game,
Fortnite
, as a playable skin.

Live Action

Live Spectacle Naruto

Main article:
Live Spectacle Naruto

Hiro Yūmi plays as Orochimaru in this stage play adaption.

Creation and Conception

As one of the villains in the story, Kishimoto created Orochimaru as an antithesis to the protagonists' values. His snake-like appearance and related features were intended to make it easier for the reader to recognise that he is a villain. In an interview, Kishimoto asserted that making the villains "flamboyant" was one of his "guiding principles", and attributed this to his desire to have the villains possess a "powerful aura".

Following this theme of distinguishing villains, Kishimoto attempted to make Orochimaru's face appear "pasty and sickly," which serves to emphasise the "scary looks" that Kishimoto frequently has Orochimaru performing in the manga. As these occurrences are his "trademark", Kishimoto modifies Orochimaru's appearance and the scene to focus on Orochimaru's face; for instance, highlights that are normally added to Orochimaru's hair are removed and the background is blanked out to create a "creepy atmosphere".

Trivia

Springtime of Youth

The
Springtime of Youth
 wiki
 has an article about this topic:

Orochimaru

The name "Orochi" literally means "great snake" (
大蛇
) while "maru" (
丸
) is a common suffix in male names.

It is possible that Orochimaru has a last name, since both of his parent's names are written with two words. However, reading them is impossible due to the
kanji
's bad quality.

Orochimaru borrows heavily from Japanese myth and literature:

Literature — Orochimaru's name, as well as those of
Jiraiya
 and
Tsunade
, come from the
"The Tale of the Gallant Jiraiya"
 (
児雷也豪傑物語
,
Jiraiya Goketsu Monogatari
). The Orochimaru in that story was originally a student of Jiraiya's called Yashagorō, until he was corrupted by snake magic and took on the name Orochimaru.

Myth —
Yamata-no-Orochi
 (
八岐大蛇
,
Eight-forked Giant Snake
), a giant eight-tailed, eight-headed snake killed with the Totsuka Sword by the god
Susanoo-no-Mikoto
, who found the
Kusanagi Sword
 in one of its tails. This mirrors almost exactly how Itachi Uchiha using Totsuka Sword wielding
Susanoo
 sealed Orochimaru, while in his
Yamata
 form, and wielding the
Kusanagi Sword
 kept inside of him.






Orochimaru's signature.



In the English VIZ translation of
chapter 49
, Orochimaru introduces himself to Sasuke as "Orochimaru, the Giant Snake". This was not present in the original version.

The symbolism of Orochimaru's snake affiliation can be also tied to how many cultures, Eastern and Western, perceived snakes as symbols of immortality and rebirth via the shedding of their skin.

Orochimaru shares his blood type with his former teammates, Jiraiya and Tsunade.

After the preliminaries conclude, he is never shown again wearing an Otogakure
forehead protector
.

Studio Pierrot's Settei sheets of Orochimaru show that he was 153 cm when he was part of Hiruzen's genin team, and as an adult he is always 179.5 cm even after taking bodies, even though the databook puts him as 179.4 cm.

Orochimaru's second listed databook height of 172 cm exactly matches Gen'yūmaru's,
 suggesting Orochimaru takes on the height of his hosts after transferring into them. If that is the case, his height should be 177 cm after taking a Zetsu body.

According to the databook(s):

Orochimaru's hobby is creating techniques.

Orochimaru wishes to fight those with techniques that can be used in the future.

Orochimaru's favourite food are
eggs
 (likely a gag to his snake motif), while his least favourites are anything cold.

During his time as a Konoha-nin, Orochimaru has completed 1,468 official missions in total: 16 D-rank, 332 C-rank, 521 B-rank, 491 A-rank, 108 S-rank.

Orochimaru's favourite words are "destruction" (
破壊
,
hakai
) and "chaos" (
混沌
,
konton
).

In the
fourth databook
, kekkei genkai is not listed among Orochimaru's special characteristics, despite his current
host
 granting him
Wood Release
.

In
Naruto Shippūden the Movie: Bonds
, Orochimaru claimed that
Shinnō
 had taught him many
Reincarnation Ninjutsu
.

Throughout the
anime adaption
 of
Konoha Hiden: The Perfect Day for a Wedding
, Orochimaru makes comedic cameos throughout Konoha while being pursued by Yamato.

Quotes

(To
Kabuto
) "
You just don't have enough information to explain yourself yet. Your glasses, your name, being someone's child is not something that can show who really you are. But that is fine. If you're not happy on what you have now… you can just find new things to find up. …You see, I also want to find who I really am. That's why I'm collecting a bit of everything.
"

(To
Hiruzen
) "
I want to obtain all the techniques and gain a true understanding of everything in this world. The first one to mix blue and yellow called the new colour "green". I want to do something similar to that. If blue is the chakra, then yellow is the seal, and green is the technique… Just as there is no end to the variety of colours, there are so many thousands… tens of thousands of techniques in the world as well. But in order to obtain every possible technique and truth, it would require an eternity. Only one who understands everything after spending such time on this can be fittingly called the Ultimate Being.
"

(To Hiruzen) "
What nonsense! In the grand scheme of time, you're nothing more than a trivial footnote in the brief history of a cluster of huts called "Konoha"! In time, the Hokage Stone Faces will crumble and be worn down to nothing…
"

(To a young
Kimimaro
) "
Maybe, just maybe, there is no purpose in life. But if you linger a while longer in this world, you might discover something of value in it, like how you discovered that flower. Or, how I discovered you one fateful night.
"

(To Kabuto, talking about
Tsunade
) "
The best medicines always taste bitter.
"

(About
Naruto
) "
This child… intrigues me to no end!
"

(About
Sasuke
) "
When I watch this boy, I look back to the time I was called a genius, and think how ridiculous it was.
"

(About
Yūkimaru
) "
When there is a true desire in the heart and that desire is strong… that is when he finds real strength that even he did not know he had.
"

(To Sasuke) "
I refuse… to let this happen! I am Orochimaru! I am immortal! I will not die here! Destined to discover the true meaning behind everything! Destined to take control of everything in this world!!
"

(To
Suigetsu
 about Sasuke) "
It's just like the time when I planned on crushing the Konohagakure… He has chosen a divergent path from the village… But even so, it'll always have some sentimental value. He's soaking that all in and coming to terms with… The consequences of his future actions and reaffirming his resolve.
"

(To
Tsunade
, about Jiraiya) "
People change. It's just a matter of whether they die before it happens. Although
he
 died just the way he was.
"

(To Hiruzen) "
Fine, let's bring back the memories… of when I was your student.
"

References