Otogakure
 (
音隠れの里
,
Otogakure no Sato
,
English TV:
 Village Hidden in the Sound,
literally meaning:
 Village Hidden by Sound) is the personal hidden village of
Orochimaru
, which was founded after he left the
Akatsuki
 for the express purpose of collecting ninja for his experiments and his quest to learn all techniques. In later years, following Orochimaru's new appreciation for natural development of people and making a truce with
Konohagakure
, Otogakure was reestablished as a legitimate shinobi village.

Background





Kabuto leading Otogakure ninja in the Konoha Crush.



Initially, Orochimaru claimed that he founded this village so that skilled ninja would find their purpose in life without being beholden to the fickle and warmongering priorities of the
Five Great Shinobi Countries
.
 In actuality, Otogakure is not really a village, but a network of laboratories composed of various hideouts and bases scattered throughout the
Land of Sound
 and various other countries.
 Otogakure's shinobi use a diverse number of techniques, which are mostly centred around the modifications resulting from Orochimaru's human experimentation.

Team Dosu
, under Orochimaru's orders, entered the
Chūnin Exams
 with the goal of killing
Sasuke Uchiha
 while unaware their true mission was to be subjected to Sasuke's power after Orochimaru gave him a cursed seal. Later, Orochimaru tricked
Sunagakure
 into helping Otogakure
invade
 Konoha. Based on their map,
Hidan
 and
Kakuzu
 visited Otogakure while searching for
jinchūriki
.

Ten years after the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, Otogakure is being reconstructed as a true shinobi village. Orochimaru's son,
Mitsuki
, is allowed to enrol in Konoha's
Academy
 as a transfer student as a sign of mutual respect between the two villages, and later becomes a Konohagakure
genin
.

Locations

Orochimaru set up many bases across the world during his travels. These bases ranged from usually inconspicuous underground hideouts with holes for entrances to more grand ones hidden on an island. All these hideouts were outfitted with laboratories where he and later
Kabuto Yakushi
 would carry out experiments.

Land of Sound Base






The former headquarters in the Land of Sound.



The former headquarters of Otogakure at least up until the Chūnin Exams, the stronghold was built below a tree.
 It has two markings on it reminiscent of a snake and what appears to be a snake's skull on the top-most part. This is where Orochimaru returned to after
Hiruzen Sarutobi
 had
sealed his hands
 and he remained here while he experienced the adverse effects of his rotting hands. This is also where Orochimaru kept the hand with his
Akatsuki ring
 which
Itachi Uchiha
 had severed. In the anime, when
Naruto
,
Sakura
, and
Jiraiya
 infiltrated the hideout, they fought against
Arashi
, which lead to the hideout being destroyed.

Kusagakure Hideout






The Kusagakure Hideout.



This hideout is located somewhere in
Kusagakure
 or there about. Another hideout built entirely underground with the entrance being at the foot of a rock formation.
 Within the hideout itself are numerous rooms and a statue of a gigantic snake coiled up with candles in its eyes. This is where
Sai
 attempted to carry out his secret mission to kill
Sasuke Uchiha
. This is also where
Sakura
 and
Naruto
 reunited with Sasuke after two years. The confrontation culminated with a portion of the hideout being destroyed. Orochimaru, Sasuke and Kabuto subsequently abandoned it.

Southern Hideout






The Southern Hideout.



The
Southern Hideout
 (
南アジト
,
Minami Ajito
) is located on an island in the middle of an ocean somewhere possibly off the coast of the
Land of Waves
.
 It was filled with prison cells and wardens were also employed to keep the prisoners in check, one such person was
Karin
 who later join Sasuke's team
Hebi
.

Northern Hideout






The Northern Hideout.



The
Northern Hideout
 (
北アジト
,
Kita Ajito
) is a grander hideouts in terms of size. It is one of the hideouts that Orochimaru used to conduct his human experiments with the cursed seal.
Jūgo
 was kept here since he was the origin of the cursed seal. After Orochimaru's demise, Sasuke freed Jūgo from here and had him join his team.

Eastern Hideout






The Eastern Hideout.



The
Eastern Hideout
 (
東アジト
,
Higashi Ajito
) is an underground hideout. It has a mouth of a snake for an entrance
 and several snake-like candle-holders on the walls. It was also filled with large glass cylinders with liquids in it. Here was where
Suigetsu Hōzuki
 was kept and experimented on. Upon returning to the hideout, Suigetsu found a secret chamber after Jūgo had attacked him and broken a false wall. Within his secret chamber, Suigetsu found a
scroll
 detailing how to summon
Shinigami
 and take back the contents within.

Abandoned Hideout






An abandoned hideout.



This is an underground hideout near the
Land of Wind
.
Koji Kashin
 takes residence in this abandoned hideout at some point after his battle against
Isshiki Ōtsutsuki
.

Island Laboratory






Island laboratory.



This laboratory is built into the side of a small island and is a
medical
 laboratory created for
Kabuto
 to use. The lab is covered in medical equipment, ranging from scalpel to test-tubes. The lab's most unique feature, however, is the large blood extracting machine in the centre of the room, which Kabuto used to transfuse Orochimaru's blood into himself after his apparent defeat. One of the room's massive walls is covered in ceiling length shelves stacked full of jarred experiments, books, scrolls, crates, and tools.

Demon Island Laboratory






Demon Island Lab.



In the anime, this
laboratory
 is located in the Demon Island of the
Land of the Sea
. It is an experimental laboratory with many transgenic creatures contained in test pillars. Some time before the start of the series,
Amachi
, the lead scientist, and Orochimaru terrorised the people of the Land of the Sea by kidnapping the citizens for their deadly experiments, which included making the
ultimate underwater ninja
, an idea later abandoned by Orochimaru.

Clans

Shiin Clan

Fūma Clan

Trivia

In the manga, the village's official attire include a symbol of
Uzushiogakure
.

All Oto-nin wore turtle shell-patterned sandals.

In Viz's translation of
Naruto Retsuden: Naruto Uzumaki and the Spiral Destiny
, Otogakure's name is mistranslated as "Ongakure".

See also

List of Otogakure characters

References