The
Outer Path — Samsara of Heavenly Life Technique
 is a
reincarnation ninjutsu
 used through the
Outer Path
, which can infuse new life into the bodies of the dead in exchange for the user's own life.

Usage

When this technique is activated, the
King of Hell
 emerges from the ground and releases the souls of the deceased from its mouth. These souls may be recalled from even the crossroad between life and the
afterlife
, and are then returned to their rejuvenated bodies. The exact limitations of this technique are unknown, but on one occasion, it was able to resurrect a large number of individuals who had recently died. While using this technique, the caster is severely weakened; for instance,
Nagato
's hair turned white as a result of overexerting his power.
 Ultimately, once the technique is finished, the user invariably dies.

This technique can also be used to transform the corpse vessel of an individual revived by
Summoning: Impure World Reincarnation
 into a real body of living flesh and blood.
 However, whereas the rest of the reincarnated
Madara Uchiha
's body was made real, his
eyes
 instead crumbled into dust upon his resurrection. This method does not require the King of Hell to appear.

The revived individuals are seemingly revived with a fully restored chakra level, as Kakashi did not require hospitalization to recover after revival, and was able to carry Naruto after he nearly passes out after his fight with Pain.

Trivia

When written as '輪廻転生',
Rinne Tensei
 means "the circle of transmigration" or "metempsychosis".

Hashirama Senju
 identified this technique as a
Six Paths Kinjutsu
 (
六道の禁術
,
Rikudō no Kinjutsu
,
literally meaning:
 Six Paths Forbidden Technique).

When Nagato was preparing to use this technique,
Konan
 feared for the worst due to his low chakra levels, implying she believed he could have potentially survived with more chakra.
 However, according to the
fourth databook
, usage of this technique always comes at the cost of the user's life.

Madara — and
Obito
 under the guise of Madara — noted that this technique was supposed to be used to revive him.
 Madara would eventually be revived by Impure World Reincarnation instead, and expressed surprise and disappointment that his return didn't go as planned, as only a living person can become the
Ten-Tails
'
jinchūriki
.
 Eventually,
Black Zetsu
 successfully
forced
 Obito to perform this technique on Madara.
 Obito was then able to temporarily survive the effects of using this technique due to Black Zetsu attaching to his body.
 After this, Naruto temporarily stabilised Obito's life force using his
Six Paths Yang Power
 like he did with
Might Guy
 after he used the
Eight Gates Released Formation
, allowing him to bring back Sasuke and later battle against
Kaguya Ōtsutsuki
. However, as the both noted, Obito would still die as a result from using this technique.

References