Pakura
 (
パクラ
) was a famed
Sunagakure

kunoichi
 during her lifetime.

Background






Pakura's death.



Pakura was
Maki
's teacher and would regularly train with her. During her lifetime,  Pakura, who was also known as the Hero of Sunagakure, was considered a part of negotiations with
Kirigakure
, according to the village
higher ups
. She took her last breath while cursing her village and shinobi.

In the anime, Pakura's background is further explained. Pakura was sent on a mission to stop
Iwagakure
's plans during their feud with
Suna
. She successfully accomplished the mission and was hailed as a hero by the village. Some time later, Pakura was sent on another mission to Kirigakure, to act as an ambassador, but she was betrayed and killed by the ambush they set. After her death,
Rasa
 and the seniors pinned the blame on Iwagakure for her death.

Personality

Pakura seems to have a moral code of sorts, shown when she was surprised that she was going to fight what she deemed "children".
 In the anime, it is shown that she is resentful towards both Suna and Kiri for the treachery that led to her death. However, after seeing
Maki
 and the resolve of Maki's comrades, Pakura decides to "give the children a chance to change the future" before her personality was wiped out again. While alive, she believed that loyalty for friends, family and village makes a shinobi strong.

Appearance






Pakura during her lifetime.



Pakura was a fairly tall kunoichi. She was fair-skinned with pupiless brown eyes. She had green hair that she tied in a bun on top of her head with a hair needle running through it and one short and long strands of hair with orange tips framing each side of her face. Her typical attire consists of a sleeveless, backless top and short tight pants, with two lapels on the front and the back. She wears an
obi
 around her waist, as well as purple arm-warmers which extend up to her shoulders, and has bandages around her tights and ankles. Like all
reincarnated
 shinobi, the only changes in Pakura's appearance were that of grey eye sclerae.

Abilities

Pakura was a renowned kunoichi whose skills earned her enough fame during her life that Kabuto actively chose to reincarnate her to fight for Akatsuki. In the anime, she was shown to be a highly perceptive fighter, able to see through most deceptions and react quickly. She was also a skilled close-range fighter, able to fight back a kenjutsu specialist like
Omoi
 only armed with a kunai.

Ninjutsu

Nature Transformation






Pakura employing the use of Scorch Release.



She possesses a
kekkei genkai
 known as
Scorch Release
.
 She is the only known person to have this kekkei genkai. By combining two chakra natures, hinted to be fire and wind,
 she can create heat orbs that "mummify" her enemies, killing them seemingly by evaporating all the moisture in their bodies. Pakura displays this ability when using
Scorch Release: Extremely Steaming Murder
;
 combined with her incredible agility, she managed to kill many
Allied Shinobi Forces
 members in a short amount of time. In the anime, she
combined
 all of her heat orbs into a giant ball which was strong enough to completely scorch a large portion of a forest.

Part II

Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation

Main article:
Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation






Pakura and the other reincarnated shinobi begin their assault.



In preparation for the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, Pakura was
reincarnated
 by
Kabuto Yakushi
 to fight against the
Allied Shinobi Forces
, before being mobilised alongside
Gari
,
Toroi
,
Haku
, and
Zabuza Momochi
. Ambushed by the
Surprise Attack Division
, Pakura likely sustained damage due to the
explosive tags
 carried by
Sai
's
ink birds
, though she would have quickly regenerated from such an attack. Hesitant to attack people who appeared in her eyes to be just "
children
", Pakura was forced to storm the recently grounded opposition nonetheless, but was fortunately intercepted by a member of the
Third Division
.






Pakura mummifies several shinobi.



After Kabuto erased her consciousness, an unthinking Pakura launched into an assault with her
Scorch Release: Extremely Steaming Murder
 technique, mummifying several shinobi in her wake. She and Gari are then used as mediums to
summon
 the previous generation of the
Seven Ninja Swordsmen of the Mist
 to overwhelm the enemy. Accomplishing this, both retreat to a safe distance to await further orders, as the swordsmen begin their
concealed
 massacre.

In the anime, as dawn broke on the war's second day, Pakura had reappeared on the battlefield. Pakura located the squad led by
Monga
 and mummified the shinobi. Pakura was surprised to see her grown student,
Maki
, and explained she wanted to "vent her frustration" on her manipulators and betrayers. Pakura revealed her secret mission to Maki and also revealed that she was killed by the Kirigakure ninja in an act of treachery, which Sunagakure had agreed to. Though a Kirigakure
kunoichi
 by Maki's side explained her village turned over a new leaf and has changed for the better since acquiring a new
Mizukage
, Pakura declared that it still does not erase the village's past sins.






Pakura prepares to attack Maki and the others.



As the squad
hid
 from her, Pakura
incinerated
 the area in an attempt to kill them. Pakura later found the shinobi and Maki tried to convince her teacher that they could change the future but her plea fell on deaf ears.
Omoi
 and
Zaji
 arrived to stop Pakura from killing the squad, and fought her off until Gari intervened in the fight. Seeing Maki's growth, Pakura had a change of heart and kept Gari in place with her flame orbs, allowing her student's squad to flee. Starting to feel at peace, Pakura's consciousness faded away as Kabuto eradicated hers and Gari's personalities once more.

Fourth Shinobi World War: Climax

Main article:
Fourth Shinobi World War: Climax






Pakura's soul returns to the afterlife.



By the time
Kakashi Hatake
 and
Might Guy
 departed for
Naruto Uzumaki
's location, Pakura had been sealed by the Third Division.
 However, in the anime, she, along with Gari and Mangetsu, was able to retreat before being sealed after temporarily battling with the Third Division.

Later, with the release of the Impure World Reincarnation technique, a light of sorts encased Pakura's sealed body as the technique was dispelled, and her soul was returned to the
afterlife
. In the anime, Pakura was still active, battling Maki and numerous Suna shinobi. As her soul began to ascend, Pakura told her student to not die in vain.

In Other Media

Video Games

Pakura is a playable character in the following video games:

Game name
Japanese release
English release
Naruto Mobile
2016
2016
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Blazing
14 July 2016
24 August 2016
Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Online
14 April 2013
20 July 2016

Trivia






An unnamed kunoichi abducted by Hiruko.



Pakura shares her character design with a Sunagakure kunoichi who was abducted by
Hiruko
 for use with his
Chimera Technique
 during the events of
Naruto Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire
.

A
kunoichi
 from
Iwagakure
 seen in
Naruto: Shippūden
 episode
190
 also resembles Pakura.

According to her profile in
Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Online
:

Pakura has the following stats: 90 in Vitality, 80 in Taijutsu, 60 in Defense, 90 in Ninjutsu, 80 in Resistance.

Quotes

(To
Maki
)
"You want to get stronger to have revenge, right? Those feelings will make you stronger! Your feelings for your family, this village, your friends in this village and the desire to defend this village is what makes a shinobi strong!"

References