Paradise Life on a Boat
 (
船上のパラダイスライフ
,
Senjō no Paradaisu Raifu
) is an
arc
 of the
Naruto: Shippūden
 anime. It covers episodes 223 to 242. This arc shows
Naruto
 and his team on their journey to the
Land of Lightning
 by sea, to confine him from
Akatsuki
 during the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, as well as character development for the
Konoha 11
. This arc takes place in the middle of the
Fourth Shinobi World War: Countdown
 arc.

Summary

The Young Man and the Sea





Yamato, Aoba, Guy and Naruto depart to the Land of Lightning.



A team consisting of
Yamato
,
Aoba
, and
Might Guy
 and three other unknown shinobi, set off with Naruto to the Land of Lightning, to confine him in an isolated location from Akatsuki in preparation for the Fourth Shinobi World War. The team travels to a harbour in the
Land of Fire
 to travel by sea.
Tsunade
 ordered them to take the long way so Akatsuki wouldn't attempt to capture Naruto. The boat the team takes is rather small one, so they won't get noticed. Some fellow
Konoha
-nin warn them about a sea monster that attacks any ship that goes into open water. Guy decides to sail out with Aoba to the water to fight the monster. Suddenly, the monster attacks Guy and Aoba, and they learn that it is a
Giant Marlin

summon
 from the
Third Shinobi World War
, roaming around the waters of the Land of Fire. As the marlin swims towards Guy, a fisherman named
Yūsuke
, tries to capture it. The fish destroys Yūsuke's boat and the fisherman is saved by Naruto. Holding Yūsuke prevents Naruto from performing any techniques and is left open. Yamato shields Naruto and Aoba distracts the marlin with the
Scattering Thousand Crows Technique
 while they all escape.





The Giant Marlin returns.



At Yūsuke's hut, the Konoha-nin try to figure out why the marlin did not return home after the war. Yūsuke tells them to not interfere as he wants to capture the fish himself, to avenge his father who died trying to capture it. As the team is about to depart, Naruto wants to help Yūsuke avenge his father to which everyone agrees. The next day, Yūsuke comes out to see a new boat and fishing rod made by Yamato. The team sails out with Yūsuke to search for the marlin. The marlin appears and Guy opens the second of his
Eight Gates
 to keep up with the fish's speed. Yūsuke uses a large fishing lure resembling Naruto to catch the marlin. The fish eventually gets exhausted from pulling on the lure and Yūsuke finally captures the marlin. Afterwards, Naruto notices a
fūma shuriken
 on the marlin's forehead and pulls it out. The marlin returns home shortly after and the Konoha sail on a new boat, waving goodbye to Yūsuke, while the fish swims off and disappears.

The Ninja of Benisu





The shinobi of Benisu Island.



While on the way to the Land of Lightning, Naruto and his bodyguards stop off at a nearby island, due to all his bodyguards becoming seasick, Guy in particular. While there, they see
Sakura
,
Ino
 and
Chōji
 picking up medicinal herbs on the orders of Tsunade and Naruto decides to help them, although he does not fare well, from eating poisonous herbs to being paralysed on a bridge. As Chōji spots one of the medicinal herbs, some
ninja
 from the
Benisu Island
 appear and make the Konoha ninja waste their time, while collecting the exact same herbs. However, they have a change of heart and give Sakura, Ino and Chōji all the herbs they picked up, as Naruto saved them from a monster protecting the Elixir Mud. With Guy feeling better, they head off towards the Land of Lightning and Tsunade's team back to Konoha happily, unaware that the Benisu ninja just gave them the herbs, so they could collect the debt owed after the war.

The Cursed Ghost Ship






The ghost ship.



As they continue their voyage towards the Land of Lightning, Naruto, Aoba, Guy and Yamato sail through a thick fog. Yamato tells Aoba and Naruto about the "Ghost Ship" to pass the time. Suddenly, they met another ship, very much same to Yamato's description of the said ship. They come to the ship to investigate, and meet
Hishaku
, who is revealed to be a "soul" who cannot rest because of the guilt when the ship was attacked by the
Giant Corpse Crab
. Naruto and the others help him revenge the said crab, and later was revealed all his co-sailors and the captain cannot also rest. After defeating it, Naruto continued sailing, as well the ship set free. The ship disappears, horrifying Naruto upon realisation that the Ghost Ship was true.

Battleship Island






The pirates.



While sailing to the Land of Lightning, Naruto Uzumaki and the others are attacked by pirates who wanted to sink their ship and loot the wreckage.

Thanks to some fast thinking on Yamato's part and the early warning by one of the
sensor
-type
shinobi
 however, the ship is saved and they dock in an underground cavern. There they find a burial ground and a journal telling of the plight of the native islanders at the hand of the wicked
Gataro
 and his men, being enslaved and died one by one. Hearing this, Naruto vows revenge for the deceased and comes up with an ingenious strategy on how to escape the giant geyser that they were trapped in. Using Naruto's strategy the
Konoha
 shinobi and crew were able to escape the island and put Gataro and his men out of commission. The cloth he wore as substitute for his forehead protector flies towards the island.

The Forgotten Island






The island of summons.



While on their voyage to the Land of Lightning, a giant bird swoops down and kidnaps Guy. The team pursues the bird and are lead to a volcanic island. Upon arrival, Aoba spots a
mysterious girl
 watching them and decides to pursue her while Yamato and Naruto search for Guy. During their search, Naruto and Yamato encounter many giant creatures, including the bird that kidnapped Guy. They eventually locate the bird's nest where they find Guy, who was actually kidnapped to babysit the bird's chicks. Meanwhile, as Aoba pursues the girl, he discoverers the animals on the island are actually bred to be used by shinobi as summons, as well as a research dedicated to developing the ultimate summon. He continues to follow her, and he is lead inside the volcano and finds a huge monster asleep inside an abandoned research lab. Using a mind reading technique, he discovers the monster was too powerful to be contained and had devoured many of the islands summons, as well as the researchers, before going to sleep.






The Ultimate Summoning Beast.



The bird takes Yamato, Guy and Naruto to the volcano where they then encounter Aoba, and the beast suddenly awakens, going on a rampage. The monster is powerful and uses
genjutsu
 as well as
Lightning Release
. Naruto has to enter
Sage Mode
 while Yamato protects him as Guy and Aoba fight the beast in order to buy some time. Guy manages to knock the beast into the heart of the volcano, but the monster can also fly. The bird which kidnapped Guy comes down and attacks the monster along with the other summons. The girl, actually the spirit of the girl who the researchers used to restrain the beast until it grew too strong, appears and manages to immobilise the beast, with Naruto finishing it off with
Wind Release: Rasenshuriken
. As the ship leaves, Aoba released the flower he got, and the closing scene returns to the abandoned building, the book flips, and drops a picture of Honoka with the researchers.

Fight! Rock Lee!






Lee training on a boat.



Lee
 dreamed fighting
Tobi
, after awaking, he then thinks about his training to the upcoming war, and saw a boat, while Guy remembers their past "visualisation training" with him using the menu in a restaurant they celebrated when Lee mastered
Reverse Lotus
 (although they left it in ruins when Lee was drunk). Guy wants to have it kept secret, he said it so they can remember what happened there (although he really knows what happened). First is training the White Crane Fist, but the birds beat them. Then the Snake Fist, but the quicksand almost killed them. Next is the Eagle Claw Fist, they had to climb on a seemingly-like cliff, but the eagle caught them. The last is then Lee getting near to know it, but Guy thinks of an alibi, but when they trained in a waterfall he then realises, and learned the Seasick Fist, which he then defeated Guy. Naruto then commented that he can't use said fist unless he didn't overcome his seasickness. Lee is later shown training it while riding in a boat. But at the end, Naruto just berated Guy for developing a useless technique.

Eat or Die! Mushrooms from Hell






Naruto infected by Moulding Mushrooms.



The group stops for supplies and prepare to enter an area devoid of fish of the sea and wind that takes two weeks to be crossed. In the hold, a
mushroom
 purchased by Naruto begins to multiply and to absorb the chakra of Yamato. After resisting for a long time without food, Naruto and Guy taste the mushrooms and it poisons them and push them to act in a violent manner. Without alternatives, Naruto calls
Gamatatsu
 and asks him to bring him
Shima
's food, composed of insects and worms. All aboard eat and regain strength, even managing to defeat the bandits who sold them the mushroom when they come to look for valuable cargo. The team then eats, but with their supplies gone, they resort to eating mushrooms, bugs and worms for the duration of the route.

Revenge of the Shadow Clones






The shadow clones kidnap Naruto as hostage.



After having braved a storm, four of Naruto's shadow clones rebel against him, taking him hostage, forcing the crew to stop in an island. Naruto's clones were going to kill him, but he wakes up and realises it was all just a dream of one of his clones. So, when the clone extinguished himself to protect him, his memories were transferred to the real Naruto. Naruto becomes respectful of his clones and releases the technique, giving the clones the rest they craved and deserved.

The Closed Route






The ship sailing towards peril.



Shikamaru begins to feel the pressure of shouldering the lives of his friends in the upcoming Fourth Shinobi World War. To help ease his mind,
Shikaku
 sends his son along with
Tenten
 on a mission to
Mokuzu Island
 to replenish supplies. On the island, Shikamaru meets up with Naruto's group. Soon after they set sail, the fog around the area gets thicker and they encounter reef systems, a huge rock and a whirlpools again and again. Shikamaru figures that their ship is sailing through the bay in circles and tells Naruto and the others to sail straight for it and get swallowed up. The
criminal
, on seeing the ship wrecked, arrives at the spot with his gang to loot the wreckage. Having stored the ship in Tenten's scroll, they proceed to defeat the criminals.

The Girls' Get-Together

At a meeting held by the
Hyūga clan
 regarding the impending war,
Neji
 is appointed as the commander of the clan on the frontlines by
Hiashi
 which shocked some of the members, who favoured Hinata as their leader.
Hinata
 later meets with
Kurenai
 where she is told by
Shikamaru
 that he and quite a few of the other members of the Konoha 11 had seen Naruto since he left the village and that Tsunade was looking for her.






The girls along with Shizune and Tsunade having a get-together at Yakiniku Q.



Hopeful that Tsunade had in fact requested her to go on a mission so she could see Naruto she goes in search of her only to be disappointed. She along with the other females of the Konoha 11 and
Shiho
 are later invited by Tenten to a girls night out at
Yakiniku Q
. Somewhat saddened that he wasn't invited, Chōji comes up with the idea of a guys night out at the same place. The two groups talk about Naruto and the past, reminiscing about the first
Chūnin Exams
. The girls are later joined by Shizune and a moderately intoxicated Tsunade. Tsunade attempts to apologise for how she dismissed Hinata earlier but Hinata tells her it was fine as she knew what she had to do. The next day during her training with Neji she tells him that she bore no ill will towards him for her father's decision and that he was the right person to lead them in the war.

Naruto's Imposter






Naruto confronts his impostor.



While crossing part of their trajectory by land in the
Land of Water
's territory, Naruto's group comes across an imposter, claiming to be him. He and his partner are acting as criminal and hero duo, claiming to defeat Naruto, who had apparently become famous due to his victory over
Pain
, in order to build up a reputation for themselves during the upcoming war. Naruto however quickly defeats him.
Mercenary ninja
 attack the imposter Naruto, thinking him to be a
missing-nin
, in order to collect a reward.
Iggy
 calls Naruto's group for help, but they need to be on their way to the Land of Lightning. Iggy tries defending
Banna
 on his own. Having stayed behind to see what he'd do, Naruto's group helps defeating the mercenary ninja and continue on their way.

Naruto's Favourite Pupil






Konohamaru using Fire Release: Ash Pile Burning.



Konohamaru
,
Udon
 and
Moegi
 are training to prepare for the upcoming war. After heading to the hospital, Sakura makes them carry and stack boxes. Konohamaru, wanting something more important to do leaves with his team ranting. Shikamaru asks Konohamaru who the "King" was and writes the kanji for King on a stone shaped like a
shōgi
 piece and gives it to him. Konohamaru then goes to see Tsunade who outright says no. Frustrated after seeing
Temari
 who was there to deliver a message from Suna as well as check on the progress of the village after Pain's invasion. Konohamaru later challenges Temari while she is on her way home. The two have an intense spar with Konohamaru being unable to land an attack on Temari. Eventually after Temari taunts him that the
Sarutobi clan
 was left with no good heir and that Naruto had a poor pupil. The two almost end up severely harming each other but the fight is stopped by Shikamaru who had been informed of Konohamaru's intentions by Udon and Moegi. After hearing Moegi's story, Konohamaru realises that the 'King' he wanted to protect were the civilians of the village who were unable to defend themselves. Shikamaru smiles at him and Temari compliments him for mastering such a high-level technique and then Team Ebisu for being such promising young shinobi, and then leaves.

The Kunoichi of Nadeshiko Village






Shizuka fighting Naruto.



Kokuyō
 wants
Shizuka
 to be his wife in order to control her village, which she repeatedly spurns his advances.
Tokiwa
, her attendant saw Naruto and after being told that he was
Jiraiya
's student told him he had to battle Shizuka for his hand in marriage as Jiraiya had promised Shizuka's
mentor
. He declined the offer, but however Tokiwa tracked him down, and narrated Shizuka's past to him, as she also was against the village's law that female should marry the man who defeats them in battle, and accept the duel. He fooled Aoba, Guy and Yamato to buy some time. He defeats Shizuka, but Kokuyō attacked Shizuka again, only to be defeated by Naruto's Rasengan. Naruto talks to Shizuka about his unrequited love for Sakura Haruno in order to encourage Shizuka to rethink her destiny. At the end, she decided to return to the village.

Friends You Can Count On

In
Konohagakure
,
Shino
 is telling a few younger Konoha shinobi, who are curious, about the upcoming war. Shino tells them that this was in fact true but he was not worried because he had friends he could depend on. Shino recounts a mission he had while a
genin
 to capture
a bandit
. The mission was initially unsuccessful, as Suika was able to defeat Shino in close combat taijutsu and at the same time called him weak and mocked him use of insects in battle. It is later revealed that the bandit is a
jōnin
-level missing-nin from
Takigakure
 and as such they would not have stood a chance against him. His pride hurt greatly however, Shino secludes himself at his house to work alone.
Kiba
,
Akamaru
, and Hinata however had other plans. Together the team trained to help Shino improve his taijutsu skills. The next day a messenger pidgeon from Kurenai says that the bandit was in the area, Kiba, Akamaru and Hinata prepare to go ahead leaving Shino, who had said just before that he didn't feel qualified to be on their team, much to Kiba's and Hinata's shock. Leaving Shino behind, Hinata uses
Byakugan
 to track Suika but he realises that he is being pursued and attacks the young genin mercilessly, with a volley of attacks.






Shino attacks Suika.



Surrounded by webs from the summoned spiders, Suika attacks them with his
Fire Release: Flame Whirlwind
 technique, but they are however saved by Shino's
wall of bugs
. Trapping them beneath his
Net-Shaped Prison
, he attacks Shino first but is taken by surprise by Shino's now improved taijutsu skills. As the two clash, Shino begins to overpower him. Calling on his insects, Shino creates a
clone
 of himself and the two attack Suika with the
Iron Mountain Leaning
 technique sending him flying into his own web. Using her
Gentle Fist
, Hinata easily cuts through the web and attacks Suika, leaving him wide open for a
Fang Passing Fang
 attack from Akamaru and Kiba incapacitating him. Later while at the hot springs, it is revealed that Kurenai had been watching them all along.

Ah, My Hero Lady Tsunade!






Tenten honing her weaponry skills and fighting style.



After Rock Lee falls into a river during their training, Tenten has a flashback of her youth, while waiting for him to surface. When she was a child, she had dreamed to become a strong kunoichi like her heroine: Tsunade, and thanks to Guy's guidance she initially began her path towards becoming a legendary
medical-nin
. However she failed during her training trying to
heal a fish
, and her attempts to sign a contract to summon a creature like Tsunade's famed
slugs
 met no success because of her quarrel with
Ningame
, Guy's summon. After many failures, Guy notes that she had a talent for
fūinjutsu
 and began honing her unique fighting style. After that she realised that she was a
weapons specialist
 and vowed that instead of becoming just like Tsunade, she would still become a legendary kunoichi, in her own way.

Sai's Day Off






Sai's drawing of his dreams.



Given the day off, Sai spends it strolling the village and drawing. He initially encounters three children that he at first finds it difficult to interact with, but later he realises that two of them remind him of the times he had spent with Naruto and Sakura. He has several flashbacks of their time together and the bonds they share. In the end he uses the doors of a destroyed house and paints a mural of
Team 7
 along with
Sasuke
 holding hands.

The Legendary Ino-Shika-Chō






The previous generation of Ino-Shika-Chō.



As
Team Asuma
 considers the
impending war
, they encounter
Kosuke Maruboshi
 who reminds them of the time that they rescued him while they were still genin. With this, Kosuke retells the tale of the time their fathers saved him during the
Konoha Crush
 with their
Formation Ino–Shika–Chō
. Somewhat rattled by this story, Kosuke reminds them that great shinobi weren't made in a day. As the team contemplates everything, they decide to perfect their own formation, insisting that they'd be fine because they were not alone.

Kiba's Determination






Kiba and Akamaru vs. Kakashi's ninken.



Kiba becomes upset that Naruto, the dead-last in their
Academy
 days, had become such a hero. After being chided by his mother
Tsume
 and partner Shino, he decided to train in order to become stronger. Seeking out
Kakashi
, the only available jōnin sensei currently, he asks him to help him train. Kakashi however
summons
 his
ninken
 to aid Kiba and Akamaru in their training. After initially giving up after being defeated by the hounds, Akamaru carries Kiba to a tree in the village where he sees that Naruto had broken his record in speed since the time they were children racing for candy. With his determination renewed, he demands a rematch with the hounds and is successfully able to retrieve the scroll. With this Kiba races to the tree and sets a new record, declaring that he'd never give up.

Kakashi, My Eternal Rival!






Kakashi and Guy competing in their youths.



In Konohagakure,
Kakashi
 while meeting with Tsunade about the impending
war
, receives an emergency messenger
tortoise
 from Guy with an SOS message, so he heads out to find out what has happened. On board the ship, Guy recalls the time when he and Kakashi first became rivals and their numerous battles since then. Later on in the night, the jōnin meet where Yamato tells them about a rumour of a shinobi capable of not only copying someone's appearance, but also their chakra. Kakashi soon arrives at the ship, and calls for Guy. Unaware that he sent an SOS message, Guy comes to the conclusion that the one before him could be one of those imposters that Yamato spoke of. With this notion Guy proceeds to attack Kakashi and later Aoba and Yamato when they side with Kakashi. After giving Guy irrefutable proof that he was who he said he was by telling him something from their youth, Kakashi returns to Konoha upon learning that the SOS tortoise was sent by accident.

Naruto's Vow






Ganryū attacks Akatsuchi and Kurotsuchi.



While on his way to meet messengers from
Iwagakure
,
Chōjūrō
 decides to go on ahead by himself, due to the slow progress in travelling. Naruto and his group stop in an island for restocking before going straight to the Land of Lightning. Naruto sets off to eat.
Akatsuchi
 is sent by the
Tsuchikage
 to the same isolated island in the Land of Water to rendezvous with Chōjūrō, and
Kurotsuchi
 tags along. As they await, they're attacked by a group of
Kirigakure
 ninja, led by
Ganryū
. Battle ensues and Akatsuchi is injured. Naruto and Chōjūrō interfere and stop the battle. Chōjūrō demands Ganryū and
his team
 to withdraw, stating that they are violating the
Mizukage
's will. The team leaves, and Kurotsuchi argues with Chōjūro to tend Akatsuchi's injuries, who says they need to wait for a medical-nin. Chōjūrō explains those were ninja who oppose the
Allied Shinobi Forces
, with Ganryū being the sole survivor of the
Tragedy of Yosuga Pass
.






Naruto makes a promise to Ganryū.



Kurotsuchi heads out to kill Ganryū before he can kill her. Naruto stops Kurotsuchi and Ganryū from killing one another, also telling Ganryū that it will just create a cycle of hatred. Kurotsuchi attempts to slash Ganryū using her sword, but Naruto blocks it with his body. Ganryū agrees to let Naruto fulfil the peace. Chōjūro arrives with other Kiri ninja, telling Ganryū to surrender, which he does. Chōjūro informs him that the Iwa messenger was sent by the Tsuchikage himself, to formally apologise for the Tragedy of Yogusa Pass, and return a personal belonging of one of
Ganryū's team-mates
 who was killed in it. Chōjūro tells the others that Ganryū won't be sentenced for execution. Akatsuchi then tells Kurotsuchi that Kiri will just owe Iwa a favour in the future to come, delighted that the Iwa-Kiri grudge has come to an end. Naruto leaves in a hurry, without introducing himself to the others. Once arriving with Yamato and the others, they await for a new ship to take them to the
island
 in the Land of Lightning.

Episodes

#

Episode Title

Japanese Airdate

English Airdate

223

"
The Young Man and the Sea
"

4 August 2011

4 January 2014

224

"
The Ninja of Benisu
"

11 August 2011

11 January 2014

225

"
The Cursed Ghost Ship
"

18 August 2011

18 January 2014

226

"
Battleship Island
"

25 August 2011

25 January 2014

227

"
The Forgotten Island
"

1 September 2011

1 February 2014

228

"
Fight! Rock Lee!
"

8 September 2011

8 February 2014

229

"
Eat or Die! Mushrooms from Hell
"

22 September 2011

15 February 2014

230

"
Revenge of the Shadow Clones
"

29 September 2011

22 February 2014

231

"
The Closed Route
"

6 October 2011

1 March 2014

232

"
The Girls' Get-Together
"

13 October 2011

8 March 2014

233

"
Naruto's Imposter
"

20 October 2011

15 March 2014

234

"
Naruto's Favourite Pupil
"

27 October 2011

22 March 2014

235

"
The Kunoichi of Nadeshiko Village
"

3 November 2011

29 March 2014

236

"
Friends You Can Count On
"

10 November 2011

5 April 2014

237

"
Ah, My Hero Lady Tsunade!
"

24 November 2011

12 April 2014

238

"
Sai's Day Off
"

1 December 2011

19 April 2014

239

"
The Legendary Ino–Shika–Chō
"

8 December 2011

26 April 2014

240

"
Kiba's Determination
"

15 December 2011

3 May 2014

241

"
Kakashi, My Eternal Rival!
"

22 December 2011

10 May 2014

242

"
Naruto's Vow
"

28 December 2011

17 May 2014