The
Past Arc: The Locus of Konoha
 (
過去篇～木ノ葉の軌跡～
,
Kako Hen: Konoha no Kiseki
) is an
arc
 of the
Naruto: Shippūden
 anime. It covers episodes 176 to 196. This arc is shown as multiple flashbacks from different characters, such as
Iruka
 remembering the time he first met
Naruto
 and
Kakashi
 remembering when he was appointed as leader of
Team 7
 from his perspective. The first flashback takes place prior Part I while the rest all take place before the time-skip showing how Naruto had changed in the eyes of these different characters. This arc is preceded by
Pain's Assault
 and is followed by the
Five Kage Summit
.

Summary

Rookie Instructor

After Naruto defeated
Pain
, Iruka, along with
Suzume
 and
Daikoku Funeno
 approach the ruins of the
Academy
 to salvage things for class. They split up and Iruka sees the destroyed academy, remembering when he began as a teacher and the day
Hiruzen Sarutobi
 assigned
Naruto Uzumaki
 to his class. Though he refused at first, due to Naruto being the jinchūriki of the Nine-Tails, Iruka accepts.

The next day, Naruto pulls a prank on Iruka but instead of scolding him, Iruka tells Naruto sit in his seat, remembering the advice given to him from Daikoku. When seeing Naruto being bullied by the other students because of his failed attempts to be better than
Sasuke
, Iruka tells them not to bother a kid like him. The next day, Naruto learns that Sasuke is the only surviving member of the
Uchiha clan
.

After class, Naruto wants to join
Hibachi
 and his friends in their "test of courage" though Hibachi tells him to not follow them. Naruto pranks them later in the night by dressing up as a fox demon. Hearing them say they saw a fox demon, Iruka runs to the Konoha grave site and learns it's Naruto. Recognising Iruka's glare as the same one everyone else in the village gives him, Naruto runs off with the intent not to return to the Academy again.





Iruka deciding to become an instructor of the Academy.



The next day, with Naruto is absent in class and denied to be seen by the Third Hokage, Iruka sits in the park where he meets
Kakashi Hatake
 and discusses his issues of being Naruto's teacher. Kakashi remembers when after his mission with him, Iruka decides to become an instructor at the Academy to pass the
Will of Fire
 to the next generation.

Hibachi and his friends decide to let Naruto in their group if he would do their test of courage. Hibachi was told by his father that in the hills, there are corpses left by enemy ninja. Naruto agrees to get an item from a corpse in the hills. Hibachi tells his friends that there are still enemy ninja in the hills after Naruto left. When Iruka sees that Naruto is absent in class, Hibachi says he hasn't seen him, but
Shikamaru Nara
, having heard of his trick, tells Iruka who runs out the classroom to find Naruto. Remembering Suzume telling him of the enemy ninja, Iruka tries to find Naruto before the enemy ninja find him. Elsewhere, Kakashi hears from Shikamaru and
Chōji
 that Iruka went to look for Naruto in the hills.

Iruka finds Naruto and tries to get him to go back to the Academy, but Naruto refuses and tells him that he doesn't understand him. Naruto uses his
Sexy Technique
 to escape Iruka before finding a kunai with a paper on it.
Three enemy kunoichi
 approach Naruto, demanding that he gives them the kunai but he refuses, having them resort to get it by force. Finding his Sexy Technique useless on women, Naruto flees before running into Iruka as he protects the boy while evading the kunoichi until Kakashi arrives and easily defeats the female ninja.

Iruka gives the Third Hokage the paper that was hidden on the kunai that Naruto found. Iruka then thanks Hiruzen for making him Naruto's teacher which made him remember why he became a teacher. Now being strict with Naruto to keep him from getting into trouble, Iruka's after class lecture on the
Will of Fire
 gave Naruto his aspirations to become the next Hokage someday so everyone would respect and look up to him.

Team 7

When Naruto and
Sakura
 go get water for the comatose
Tsunade
, Kakashi has a flashback of when he was appointed as the leader of
Team 7
 after the team's formation. He watches Naruto, Sasuke and Sakura, seeing Naruto and Sasuke's constant competition and remembers what
Minato
 and
Obito
 said to him about teamwork and those abandoning their comrades are worse than scum. Meanwhile,
Koharu
 and
Homura
 discuss with Hiruzen of his decision of having Naruto outside the village and being put in the same team as Sasuke.
Danzō
 listens in on their discussion and thinks Hiruzen put Naruto and Sasuke in the same team due to the Uchiha being able to control the
Nine-Tailed Demon Fox
 with the
Sharingan
 which he thinks is a good idea. After noticing Sakura depressed, Naruto tries to pick a fight with Sasuke though all his techniques are no use against Sasuke. Sasuke easily beats Naruto and the members of Team 7 decide to go meet their squad leader. Kakashi's flashback ends, knowing as the group's leader, it is up to him to put a stop to Sasuke's road of hatred.

Inari's Courage





Naruto and Sasuke in the Land of Waves.



Naruto and Sakura meet up with
Tazuna
 and
Inari
, who came to help rebuild the village. Naruto has a flashback that takes place after Team 7 finished their mission in the
Land of Waves
. Naruto remembers he had forgotten an
Ramen Ichiraku
 coupon at Inari's house and runs back to go get it. Tazuna finds the coupon and Inari decides to give it to Naruto. On his way, Inari runs into
Akane
 and his friends who try to pick on him with Team 7 gone.
Zōri
 and
Waraji
 hear of this and kidnap the kids.

Sakura and Sasuke, who was ordered by Kakashi to bring back Naruto, learn from Tazuna that Inari had went to meet up with them. Meanwhile, the remnants of
Gatō
's thugs decide to take Gatō's place and hold Inari and the others for ransom. Naruto finds his coupon and also traces of a struggle. Sasuke also notice cuts on the trees from a sword which Naruto remembers it was from Gatō's two bodyguards.

At the thugs’ hideout, Inari and the others escape from the thugs. Inari decides to distract them while Akane and his friends escape. Inari is chased into a dead end by the thugs but jumps into the water. While swimming away, Naruto and Sasuke find Inari and pull him out of the river. The thugs find him and fight Naruto and Sasuke, who are no match against them. When the thugs were about to flee, the villagers surround them, forcing them to give up. Akane and his friends apologise to Inari for bullying him and they all become friends. Then Inari tells Naruto he left his coupon at his house so then Naruto checks his pocket and wonders why its missing, Sasuke then tells Naruto that it probably drifted while he was at the river pulling out Inari, much to his dismay. The flashback ends and Inari decides to make it up to Naruto by building a new better Ramen Ichiraku for him.

Vendettas





Naruto, Sasuke, and Mr. Ostrich.



In flashback of Naruto and Sakura's, Team 7 are on a mission to take an ostrich called
Condor
 to his home. They arrive at a village where they see a swordsman named
Tsukado
 who has a vendetta to carry on a man named
Katazu
 who killed his distant relative
Shikazo
. Tsukado fails to defeat him so Naruto decides to teach him unusual revenge lessons. When Mr. Ostrich is running wild and about to run over a little girl, Tsukado shows his hidden skills to stop him shocking Naruto. Tsukado can't seem to use his skills against Katazu as the look he gives him seems to drain him.

The next day, a man named
Kanabun
 and his gang bring Katazu to Tsukado who want to profit off their fight. Tsukado doesn't hold back and manages to get the upper hand though Naruto notices something is wrong. Naruto suddenly stops the fight, saying Katazu couldn't have killed Shikazo as he sword isn't sharpened and the look of his eyes. Katazu reveals that his twin brother
Kageki
 accidentally killed Shikazo. Kageki loaned him some money and after his child's birth, he needed money and asked Shikazo if he can be repaid. Shikazo refused and they begin fighting, resulting in Shikazo falling and hitting his head hard on a stone, killing him. Katazu has then took his brother's identity and attracted Shikazo's pursuers while Kageki and his family went into hiding.

Tsukado decides not to kill him and ends their years of fighting though Kanabun wants them to keep fighting. The swordsmen, Team 7 and Mr. Ostrich chase the Kanabun Gang out of town. While going back home, Naruto wonders if it ended alright and Kakashi says it depends on them, there the flashback ends

Gaara's First Bond






Gaara stuck in the Water Mystic Puppet Dance.



At
Sunagakure
,
Gaara
,
Kankurō
 and
Temari
 learn of
Akatsuki
's invasion of Konoha. Kankurō wonders if they'll be able to rebuild though Gaara knows they will since they have Naruto and has a flashback. Team 7 are sent on a mission to stop a group of bandits located between Konoha and Suna, resulting in the two villages working together for the first time since Suna's invasion though Naruto is reluctant about it. They meet with a team from Suna who are lead by Gaara, shocking Team 7. Gaara introduces his subordinates,
Yaoki
 and
Korobi
 who are scared of Gaara's sand abilities. Kakashi notices a change in Gaara, noticing he is mellower than he was before and no longer has his bloodthirsty lust.

Both Gaara and Kakashi decide to split up so they can simultaneously attack the bandit base from different sides located on mountain. But before they do, Gaara secretly informs Kakashi that he is being followed by another group from Suna and hopes he won't be a burden though Kakashi is completely fine with it as the more they overcome, the stronger both their village's bond will be. Hiding in the trees are a group of Suna ninja who plan on killing Gaara. When Gaara's team are heading to their direction, Gaara is ambushed by the group of ninja who uses techniques that prevents Gaara from using his sand. Gaara tells Yaoki and Korobi to flee as the ninja are only after him. Team 7 notice another group of Suna ninja who are watching them. When realising they aim to kill Gaara, Naruto runs off to find Gaara while the rest of Team 7 fight the assassination squad.

Naruto finds Yaoki and Korobi and learns Gaara is danger. He asks them why they abandoned their friend which leaves Yaoki and Korobi wondering if Gaara is their friend. Naruto rescues Gaara from the assassination squad with
multiple shadow clones
 who fight them off with the help of Yaoki and Korobi who tell Gaara they're his friends. Gaara then easily takes out the rest of the ninja. Team 7 and Gaara's team continue and finish their mission and they bid each other farewell. After Team 7 leaves, Gaara asks Yaoki and Korobi what they said to him and they happily say they're his friends which brings a smile to Gaara. The flashback ends and Gaara thanks Naruto for helping him form his first bond with Konoha.

Chakra Virus






Virus breakdown.



Chōji
 and Naruto bring lunch to Sakura and
Shizune
 with Naruto leaving to assist rebuilding Ichiraku afterwards. Upon hearing Chōji quote the saying, "Fools never catch a cold", Sakura gets a flashback of catching Naruto's cold. Sakura sees Tsunade at her office, where she collapses. Tsunade then speculates the cause to be the
chakra virus
. The illness, which turns chakra into a terrible flu, was found long ago in another village, where Naruto had recently gone to for a mission. Tsunade, not wanting to contaminate the village, orders Shizune and a team of
medical ninja
 to capture Naruto.

The medical-nin try to capture Naruto, who thinks that they are after him for overeating ramen, but fail as he escapes them every time. The next morning, Naruto finds the village deserted and gets shot at from a distance from one of the medical ninja. Naruto finds the ninja and learns that the villagers were evacuated to a safe shelter and that Tsunade had ordered Naruto's capture without explaining the reason. Shizune and a team of medical ninja then arrive and chase after Naruto, who tries to locate Tsunade. Naruto finds Tsunade, who tries to corner him with
tall walls
. Chōji,
Kiba
 and
Tenten
, who were also ordered to capture Naruto, each stand on different sides. Though they defeat many groups of shadow clones, they are unable to capture the real Naruto.

The real Naruto flees to
Konoha Hospital
, distracting
Shino
 with another shadow clone as he hides in one of the rooms. Naruto then discovers the room to be where Sasuke was recuperating in after their mission from the
Land of Tea
. Learning Naruto was the source of ruckus occurring outside, Sasuke kicks Naruto out of his room, allowing the medical ninja to grab him. After getting results from Naruto, Shizune tells Tsunade that he does not have the chakra virus but had sneezed due to the pepper he had in his pocket, with Sakura just having an allergic reaction from said sneeze. After his release, Naruto demands an apology from Tsunade for her mistake; however, she covers it up by claiming the entire event as an "emergency drill".

Team Tenten






Team Tenten arrives at the research facility.



Tenten and
Neji Hyūga
 arrive at a Konoha Tool Research Lab for more tools due the weakened military power after
Pain
's invasion. In a flashback,
Might Guy
 has Naruto join
Team Guy
 on a mission with
Rock Lee
 in the hospital. For the mission, Guy assigns Tenten as captain of the team. Team Tenten arrives at the lab and ask the tool maker,
Iō
 for more tools. He shows them some of his latest tools though all of them are completely useless. The impatient Tenten then demands for the tools they need from them. The team checks on Iō's progress but went missing. Neji uses his
Byakugan
 and finds Iō hidden deep under the lab. They get past all of the traps placed with Tenten's help and find a stash of Iō's tools. Iō is impressed with Tenten's skills and decides to test her with his latest invention when suddenly one of the traps outside is triggered.

They all run outside to see two ninja named
Gameru
 and
Kusune
 who demand more tools from Iō who refuses. Naruto and Neji decide to fight them and they summon two prototype tools of Iō's,
Dakō
 and
Tsurukame
. Iō's apprentice,
Shōseki
 confesses that he sold them the tools. With Naruto and Neji struggling with the two ninja, Iō has Tenten use his latest invention,
Jidanda
. Tenten uses exploding tags to lift the giant iron ball in the air with the recoils of the explosions and throws Jidanda at Gameru and Kusune. Though the attack was blocked by Tsuru-Kame, the Jidanda reveals exploding tags inside and explodes on Gameru and Kusune. After the fight, Iō takes Jidanda back from Tenten, who was hoping to keep it, to make more adjustments to it. Naruto and Neji cheer her up with complementing on how great she was in the fight. The flashback ends and Tenten hopes that Iō finished the adjustments to Jidanda.

Training Ground Zero






Condor attacks Kotetsu.



In the ruins of Konoha, Mr. Ostrich decides to tell the story of his "rivalry" with Naruto to his young and how Naruto would interfere with his freedom. Tsunade assigns Naruto to capture Mr. Ostrich who escaped again into Training Ground Zero. Unlike last time, Mr. Ostrich trained himself into becoming a nindachō. Tsunade has
Kotetsu Hagane
 captain of the team of Naruto, Shino and Lee.
Izumo Kamizuki
 learns of Kotetsu's mission and whines about not being with Kotetsu which annoys Tsunade. Kotetsu has Shino locate Mr. Ostrich with his
kikaichū
 and the team manages to find him who laughs at Naruto. Shino has Naruto to try and distract him while he would surprise him with his bugs. Naruto makes an insult about Mr. Ostrich's father but makes a fool of himself instead. Shino's bugs get eaten by fly traps and the ostrich makes an escape. Lee runs after him but runs into a boxing kangaroo. Mr. Ostrich runs to Naruto and surprises him with his ability to speak. Naruto, Kotetsu and Lee all struggle in fighting against the powerful animals and decide to retreat.

Kotetsu decides for the team to longer hold back against them when suddenly Mr. Ostrich and the kangaroo find them. Mr. Ostrich, who now names himself Condor, is tired of humans domesticating animals and formed a team of ninja animals. Shino tries to sneak his bugs to Condor again but they are eaten yet again by an anteater that is part of Condor's team. The team battles against the animals, who prove to be a handful for them. Kotetsu decides to use his
Conch Shell Mace
 to fight Condor who is knocked down by his powerful kicks. Izumo arrives and yells at Kotetsu to run from Condor's attack. Izumo uses his
Water Release: Starch Syrup Capturing Field
 to trap Condor and Kotetsu manages to strike down Condor. The rest of the team manages to defeat the other animals they were fighting. Izumo arrived to help out Kotetsu but resulted in leaving a stack of Tsunade's paperwork unfinished. Kotetsu decides to make it up by finishing the work for him. The flashback ends and Naruto finds Condor who is surprised to see he escaped yet again and chases after him.

Jofuku Flower






Naruto defeats the illusion caused by the Jofuku flowers.



Lee arrives at Tsunade's tent and asks Sakura how she is feeling though Sakura nods her head no. Lee brought a bottle of medicine Guy made for her to get well and has a flashback of when Tsunade told him he could no longer become a ninja. Naruto and Sakura find
Ino Yamanaka
 at the hospital who tells them they have a mission together. They say their hellos to Lee in his room. Lee accidentally drops his youth drink bottle that Guy made for him but Naruto catches it and drinks it all, putting Lee in dismay. Lee explains that, with the drink, he would be able to recover a little faster. Naruto decides to go see Guy and have him make another drink. Guy appoints Naruto to a mission to go to Mount Jofuku to retrieve the
Jofuku Flower
, a medicinal herb said to cure any illness, which is the missing ingredient in the medicine he is making. Before setting off, Naruto puts on the green jumpsuit that Guy gave him.

Naruto meets Sakura and Ino at the village gate who were waiting to leave with Naruto to their mission. Naruto tells them of his mission at Mount Jofuku which is also the place of his team's mission. The team takes a break at a small tea soup where the old lady there warns them of
Jofuku Forest
 that has ghosts of dead ninja wandering about. The team head to Jofuku Forest where they find a large sign blocking a path. Naruto decides to go through it with Sakura and Ino following him, having no choice. Naruto finds the Jofuku Flowers but upon pulling them causes some sand appearing that forms into Gaara after the mention of him from Ino. The team is shocked to see "Gaara" and decide to retreat but suddenly the Gaara impostor starts attacking Naruto, having the same abilities as the real Gaara. Ino tries her
Mind Body Switch Technique
 on the impostor but cannot sense a consciousness in it. Naruto destroys the Gaara impostor with the
Naruto Uzumaki Combo
 and a
Rasengan
. Suddenly they are approached by an old medical ninja from Konoha named
Furofuki
 who is doing research in the forest.

Sakura asks Furofuki who or what was the Gaara impostor. They are then answered that it was a Jofuku Flower, which assumes the form of the nemesis of whoever pulls it. They give Furofuki the letter that they were assigned to do and are given another mission by her to take loads of Jofuku Flowers back to Konoha. With the final ingredient at hand, Guy is able to finish the medicine and makes a bowl full of medicine balls for Lee. Lee is shocked to hear that Sakura and her team did this and decides to recover as soon as possible. While Lee starts devouring the horribly tasting medicine balls, Guy does 1000 push-ups, not wanting Lee to be the only one to suffer, and the flashback ends.

Genjutsu Training






Gamariki using his genjutsu on Naruto.



After leaving for his two year training with
Jiraiya
, Naruto begins training to prepare to counter
genjutsu
 when he meets Sasuke again. Jiraiya summons
Gamariki
 to help train Naruto to cancel genjutsu by putting in under a
weird genjutsu by kissing
 him. Naruto finds Jiraiya, Sasuke and Sakura all with the appearance of Gamariki in the weird genjutsu world. Naruto tries to cancel it by disrupting his inner chakra flow but ends up knocking Gamariki into a river, having Jiraiya release Naruto from genjutsu. Outside the village they were at, Jiraiya and Naruto disrupt his chakra flow on a lake which he keeps failing at. At the end of the day, Jiraiya remembers why he chose to teach Naruto. He sees his student,
Minato Namikaze
 as a son, which makes Naruto like a grandson to him. The next day, Naruto successfully manages to disrupt his inner chakra without falling into the lake, completing the first part of his genjutsu training.

To complete the final part of the genjutsu training, Jiraiya takes Naruto to a village he once visited on his journeys that is surrounded by a forest that gives off something to someone's chakra flow to the brain similar to genjutsu. Jiraiya finds a wall around the village and him and Naruto are shot by
Chilli Pepper Bombs
. The boy who shot the pills named
Tanishi
 whose parents once gave Jiraiya a place to stay during his journey. Tanishi demands them to leave when he hears the other villagers coming. Jiraiya and Naruto sneak in the village and demand Tanishi the situation. Tanishi tells about a group of missing-nin from
Amegakure
 led by a ninja named
Kandachi
 who were hiding from their village and wanted to take over his village. He threatened the women and children will be killed if word comes out of their presence at the village. Tanishi's father
Sukune
 stood up against the ninja by freeing them from their genjutsu by shooting a chilli pepper bomb at them. Kandachi brutally murdered Sukune who died to end protecting his village. To that day, Tanishi thought of his father as a fool for getting himself killed. Jiraiya knocks out Tanishi after being told to leave the village.

Jiraiya, pretending to be caught by Naruto, disguised as Tanishi, takes him to Kandachi who remembers Jiraiya. Jiraiya wonders why the right man of
Hanzō
 ran from his village which Kandachi states no longer has a leader and is longer their village. The real Tanishi arrives, exposing of Naruto and Jiraiya's plan. Keeping his promise, Kandachi summons the
Conch King
 and decides to have the hostage villagers killed. Tanishi begs Kandachi to spare the villagers but does not hear him out. While Jiraiya saves the villagers, Naruto decides to take on Kandachi and the Conch King but his Rasengan does no damage to the creature. The two beat Naruto down constantly and Tanishi wonders why Naruto is being such a fool that doesn't give up. Naruto tells Tanishi to take the villagers to safety while he fights Kandachi and the Conch King. With the help of a fellow villager and Jiraiya, Tanishi takes the villagers to safety. Jiraiya joins Naruto to fight Kandachi and the two are put under the
Water Release Genjutsu: Mystic Fog Prison
 by the Conch King.






Naruto developing Big Ball Rasengan for the first time.



With arrival of Tanishi, deciding to be a fool like Naruto and his father, releases Naruto and Jiraiya from the genjutsu with the chilli pepper bomb. The Jiraiya with Naruto turns out to be a shadow clone and the real Jiraiya tells Naruto to create a more powerful Rasengan similar to the one that knocked out Gamariki. Naruto works on creating the Rasengan while Jiraiya held on to the Conch King with
Wild Lion's Mane Technique
. After Naruto finished creating his first
Big Ball Rasengan
, he uses it to defeat Kandachi and the Conch King. After the battle, Naruto asks Kandachi why he couldn't have asked the village to hide him and his group and tells him he is no fool which Naruto responds to by punching him saying if he has, things would've gone better. With the Ame ninja gone, Naruto and Jiraiya, along with the villagers, mourn for Sukune, telling him that they are finally free. Naruto and Jiraiya leave the village and sees Naruto as a grandson to him which seemed to freak out Naruto.

Paw Encyclopaedia






The Paw Encyclopaedia.



A group of ninja cats led by a
giant cat
 visit
Nekobaa
's shop who want to buy tools from her. While finding an old book of hers, a picture of Team 7 with a giant paw print falls from which the cat leader picks up and has a flashback. Team 7 is hired by Nekobaa to get the paw print of the boss of the ninja cat underworld, Nekomata to put in her
Paw Encyclopaedia
 which was a game played by
Itachi Uchiha
 and Sasuke when they were younger. The mention of Itachi angers Sasuke and leaves to prepare for the mission. Nekobaa explains to Naruto and Sakura of the Uchiha brothers’ game where Itachi would assign Sasuke to collect paw prints from fast cats to large lions. Sometime Sasuke stopped playing the game and two paw prints remained. Nekobaa collected one of the two paw prints from
Yugito Nii
, the
jinchūriki
 of the
Two-Tails
 and asks Team 7 to collect the last one from Nekomata who has hidden himself in a fortress.

Outside the shop, Sasuke prepares for the mission, hoping to pass the boundary his brother set. Nekobaa gives Team 7 cat ears to infiltrate Nekomata's fortress. After being guided by
Hina
 and
Denka
, Team 7 head to the fortress. At first they managed to fool the guards but after Naruto blows his cover, the cats alert the other cats of intruders. Sasuke and Sakura sneak in without Naruto and split up to find Nekomata. They both manage to find Nekomata's location from other cats and head to his location but run into cats they are forced to fight though they defeat in the end. Sasuke finds Nekomata who is surprised Sasuke got by all his guards. Nekomata begins the fight by placing Sasuke under a genjutsu but Sasuke breaks it with the Sharingan.

For the rest of the fight Nekomata relies on brute force. When Sasuke was about to be killed, Naruto and Sakura arrive to save him. Naruto decides to take on Nekomata though Sasuke decides to beat him himself with a bunch of kunai with exploding tags hanging above Nekomata which Sasuke had thrown during the fight. The ceiling collapses on Nekomata, defeating him and Sasuke collects the last paw print, ending the flashback. Nekomata remembers seven years before his fight with Sasuke that he fought and lost to Itachi who told him Sasuke will fight him in seven years and to not hold back on him. Nekobaa states that it is unfortunate that the two brothers who loved each other eventually began to have hatred towards to each other.

Eternal Genin






Kosuke Maruboshi, the "Eternal Genin".



An elderly ninja named
Kosuke Maruboshi
 has a flashback of a mission he had with Naruto years before Konoha's destruction. Kosuke is a ninja of Konoha who has been genin for fifty years. Naruto is tasked with patrolling areas near the village after the invasion, so other countries won't try invading them, and is surprised to learn that Kosuke is a ninja who's on the same team as this for the mission, and also about the famous Konoha ninja he served under. Naruto and the other members come to enjoy his presence, finding him very useful to have around.

During the mission Kosuke shares a bit of his history, including missions under the Second and Third Hokage. When Iwa-nin start to attack, the jōnin of the group stay behind to allow Naruto and Kosuke to alert the village. The Iwa-nin eventually reach them, but they're able to shrug them off. Naruto questions Kosuke about a high-level technique he used. The
kunoichi captain
 of the Iwa nin reaches them, and gets angry when she learns so many of her genin troop were defeated by few genin. Kosuke tells Naruto to go on without him and starts fighting her, using techniques he learned from previous Hokage. Naruto comes back and Kosuke defeats the kunoichi. At the present, Kosuke sees Naruto from afar, and remembers serving under the Fourth Hokage, and muses to himself that the Fourth left behind a fine son, meaning he's one of the few people who was aware of Naruto's lineage.

Jōmae Village






Kakashi and Hanare accidentally kiss.



After seeing a travelling musician visiting
Konohagakure
 while the citizens are rebuilding,
Kakashi Hatake
 remembers his and
Team 7
's incident with
Hanare
 of the
Jōmae Village
. After returning from a mission, Team 7 sees Anbu members taking a captured spy in for questioning. When she resists Ibiki's interrogation, they decided to have Inoichi Yamanaka to read her mind. He learns that she didn't find anything about Konoha, but finds it curious that she knows nothing about her own village, and is surprised to see a young Kakashi in her memories. Kakashi has no memory of Hanare, and Inoichi suggests he spends time with Hanare, hoping he can use the Sharingan to learn more about Hanare. Kakashi and Hanare walk around the village. Ino lets Sakura know Kakashi is with someone, and rushes to see for herself, meeting Naruto and Sasuke on the way, who already know, and are also interested. Hanare tells Kakashi who she met him years ago when she was lost, and how he helped her find her way back. They try to eavesdrop on the two, but end up falling on top of them, knocking Kakashi directly on top of Hanare, uncovering his Sharingan. The three cover up by saying they approve Kakashi and Hanare's supposed relationship.

Konoha learns that Hanare's village has a Konoha jōnin in custody, and agree to a hostage exchange. Kakashi objects to the trade. During the trade, Kakashi explodes the bridge on which the trade occurred, intending to take Hanare back. The Jōmae Village head tells her to rush back to the village with the information she collected. When Team 7 corners him, the village head commits suicide to prevent information leaking. Hanare reaches a cliff, and Kakashi reaches her. He tells her that he knows about her special information gathering technique, which allows her to look inside her own mind, and read the mind of those probing her mind, because he accidentally copied with the Sharingan when he was knocked on top of her. Hanare tells him that she has erased all the information she had on Konoha, because for the first time, she felt like was home and belonged somewhere when Naruto, Sasuke and Sakura accepted her, having never known her parents and being raised out of her village. By the time the others reach him, Kakashi is alone, claiming Hanare jumped off the cliff when she was cornered. Hanare lived, and is seen walking where she met Kakashi as a kid.

Rescue Hinata






Neji telling Team Ebisu of the time Hinata got kidnapped again.



Konohamaru, Udon and Moegi ask to interview
Neji
 about
Naruto
, for a report they're doing for academy students, who want to know more about Naruto. Neji hesitates, but agrees to talk with them. He tells them about what happened after he lost his fight to Naruto in the chūnin exams. After Hiashi revealed him the circumstances of
Hizashi
's death,
Tenten
 spoke with Neji. They're interrupted by the invasion, with fights breaking out throughout Konoha. Neji finds his grandfather, a Hyūga clan elder, defeated. He learns that two
Kumo spectators
 took the invasion as a chance and kidnapped Hinata to take her
Byakugan
. The elder urges him to rescue Hinata no matter what. They find
Kiba
 and
Akamaru
 and set out to rescue Hinata.

On the way, they run into a trap, but Tenten stays behind to take care of it and lets the others go ahead. They close in on the two Kumo-nin, who notice that the trap has been triggered, and begin to leave. Hinata, having awakened, strikes one of her captors. Kiba charges in. Smoke bombs explode and he leaves with
Hinata
. One of the captors tries to attack Kiba, who strikes back with a Gentle Fist manoeuvre, defeating the Kumo-nin. Neji disguised himself as Kiba and fled the smoke bomb site, leaving Kiba and the real Hinata behind. The remaining kidnapper begins fighting using long range earth release techniques, and almost defeats Neji, but
Hiashi
 appears and defeats him when he tries to escape. Neji asks why Hiashi would leave Konoha during the invasion, learning that Hiashi cares about his daughter, and that Hiashi sees Neji as a memento from his younger brother, Hizashi.

Konohamaru complains that the story had nothing to do with Naruto, and Neji tells him that Naruto was the most important thing about the story. Without him, it might not even have happened. He remembers how Hinata apologised for the trouble she caused Neji, but he told her that he did it because he wanted to, his battle with Naruto having changed him.

The Man Who Died Twice






Naruto meeting a ghost.



When Naruto was asked by Shikamaru and
Shiho
 to see if he recognises anyone in the photos they were able to recover, Naruto grabs one and leaves. He then thinks back to how he met the man in the photo. He remembers a time when he found a tag with the name Kisuke written on it. We then see Naruto sitting on his bed. He sees a man sitting on the other side, and after realising he is a "ghost", he starts screaming. Naruto asks him who he is, but the man does not remember. After the man sees a tulip in Konoha, he suddenly remembers who he is and how he became to be a ghost. His name was
Kisuke Maboroshi
, an Anbu operative investigating infiltration of spies into Konoha. When he was alive he was investigating a suspect named
Sabiru
. After following him around, he was discovered, and the two clashed. The battle ended with Sabiru sealing away Kisuke's soul.

Naruto, disguised as Kisuke, breaks into a meeting involving Konoha's security system and accuses Sabiru of being a spy. When Sabiru says that the real Kisuke is dead, Naruto escapes with Kakashi and Sabiru on his trail. At some point in the chase, Kakashi caught Naruto, and gave Naruto a chance to prove Sabiru guilty of the murders of Kisuke and his wife. When Sabiru confessed to Naruto that he did kill the two, Kakashi appeared ready to arrest him, but Sabiru was promptly taken out by
Kabuto Yakushi
 who was hidden in the trees. Near the end of the day, Kisuke's soul is ready to depart and says good-bye to Naruto. Back in the present, Naruto places a bouquet of tulips on the gravestone of Kisuke, just as he promised him he would do whenever he remembers him.

The Worst Three-Legged Race






Naruto and Sasuke stuck together.



While
Kiba Inuzuka
 and
Akamaru
 were delivering some items, Sakura Haruno and Naruto Uzumaki were watching. Sakura commented on how Naruto and Sasuke were inseparable those days and Naruto had a flashback to a mission where
Team Kakashi
 had to retrieve a golden statue, which was stolen by a band of thieves from a Feudal Princess. As Naruto and Sasuke retrieve the statue, Sakura gets taken hostage. At first, Sasuke insists on continuing the mission, but Naruto tells him that those who abandon their friends are worse than scum. When they finally find Sakura and the bandits, it was at first hard for them because their hands got stuck together. However, one by one, through teamwork, the two quickly defeated the bandits and their leader,
Jako
. Although their mission was a success, the statue itself was very damaged, but Kakashi Hatake said that it could be melted down and re-casted. When Naruto complained about his hand being stuck to Sasuke's, Sakura said that it will naturally fall apart within two or three days, much to the disappointment of Naruto and Sasuke.

Team 10's Teamwork






Team 7 and Team 10 on a mission.



Team Asuma
 tries to round up some hogs for the villagers to eat. Noticing their teamwork, Shikamaru remembers a time where the team also worked closely together in order to complete a mission. After a
Village Headman
's
granddaughter
 was kidnapped by
Baji
, he hired
Konohagakure
's
Team 7
 and Team 10 for assistance. When the teams accepted the mission to stop Baji and rescue the girl, an ex-bandit named
Tōfū
 acted as their guide.
Shikamaru
 then instructed
Asuma
 and
Kakashi
 to find an alternate route to the Baji's fortress. Tōfū later gets captured and is revealed to be a double agent working for the gang leader. When the six genin infiltrated the fortress, Shikamaru agreed to a hostage exchange between him and Tōfū in order to find out the location of the Headman's granddaughter.
Ino
 and
Chōji
 managed to find the tower where the hostages were held, and later, helped defeat Baji. The mission ended with a success, the bandit group were captured, and the Headman's granddaughter was rescued. The scene then shifts back to present time, where Ino and Shikamaru leave Chōji the arduous task of carrying all the hogs back to the village.

Drive Towards Darkness






Sasuke while punching Sadai severely.



While on the way to Konoha,
Taka
 briefly stops by a construction Sasuke recognises. He thinks back to when he first came across it. During a training section near the location, Sasuke remembers how he was falling behind Naruto after he defeated Gaara. He punches a tree and uses Chidori to take some of them out. A girl named
Naho
 almost falls from a cliff nearby and Sasuke saves her. Later, Sasuke and
Kakashi
 had been sent to investigate national wanted list criminals, and
Naruto
,
Sakura
 and have been sent to escort Naho, a relative of the
Fire Daimyō
, to Shizume village. Naho wants Sasuke to escort her, but he was with Kakashi in another mission. Naruto disguises himself as Sasuke so Naho agrees to go with them. After Sasuke and Kakashi noted that the fortress was empty, Naho's group was intercepted by
Sadai
 and his associates. Naruto, Sakura, and Naho come across the criminal and his associates. Naruto defeats the associates, but can't take down their leader. They're all captured. Kakashi uses his ninken to track the criminal. Sasuke appears and the leader mocks him, mentioning he alone in his clan wasn't worth killing, mirroring Itachi's words. Sasuke takes on the leader, who reveals an Earth Release armour, the reason he's able to take on so many attacks. Sasuke defeats him with Chidori, and proceeds to keep punching him. Kakashi stops him and Sasuke goes back to Konoha by himself. Naho comments that Sasuke is scary, but Naruto assures her that Sasuke just has a lot going on with him at the moment, and promises to take her to see him once he's better.

Episodes

#

Episode Title

Japanese Airdate

English Airdate

176

"
Rookie Instructor Iruka
"

2 September 2010

30 March 2013

177

"
Iruka's Ordeal
"

9 September 2010

6 April 2013

178

"
Iruka's Decision
"

16 September 2010

6 April 2013

179

"
Kakashi Hatake, the Jōnin in Charge
"

30 September 2010

6 April 2013

180

"
Inari's Courage Put to the Test
"

7 October 2010

6 April 2013

181

"
Naruto's School of Revenge
"

14 October 2010

13 April 2013

182

"
Gaara's Bond
"

21 October 2010

13 April 2013

183

"
Naruto: Outbreak
"

28 October 2010

13 April 2013

184

"
Deploy! Team Tenten
"

4 November 2010

13 April 2013

185

"
Animal District
"

11 November 2010

20 April 2013

186

"
Ah, the Medicine of Youth
"

18 November 2010

27 April 2013

187

"
Gutsy Master and Student: The Training
"

25 November 2010

4 May 2013

188

"
Record of the Gutsy Ninja Master and Student
"

25 November 2010

11 May 2013

189

"
Sasuke's Paw Encyclopaedia
"

2 December 2010

18 May 2013

190

"
Naruto and the Old Soldier
"

9 December 2010

25 May 2013

191

"
Kakashi Love Song
"

16 December 2010

1 June 2013

192

"
Neji Chronicles
"

23 December 2010

8 June 2013

193

"
The Man Who Died Twice
"

6 January 2011

15 June 2013

194

"
The Worst Three-Legged Race
"

13 January 2011

22 June 2013

195

"
Team 10's Teamwork
"

20 January 2011

29 June 2013

196

"
Drive Towards Darkness
"

27 January 2011

6 July 2013