This article uses
Creative Commons licensed
 content from
revision 302526695
 of
Wikipedia
's
List of Naruto episodes (seasons 7–9)
 article.

The list of authors can be seen in the
page history
 there.

"
Please, Mr. Postman!
" (
OH!?ぷりーず♥みすたーぽすとまん
,
OH!? Purīzu ♥ Misutā Posutoman
) is episode 177 of the original
Naruto
 anime.

Synopsis

On
Naruto
's way back to
Konoha
 from a recent mission, Naruto stops at a village with a hot springs resort. Along the way, he meets a unique ninja called a
Courier Ninja
 whose mission duties were solely to deliver mail through the most difficult and dangerous of terrains. At the village, much to his shock and fury, Naruto discovers
Jiraiya
 fooling around with some girls. To calm Naruto down, Jiraiya reveals the real reason he hasn't started Naruto's training yet was that he was on a mission to gather information on the
Akatsuki
 and learned that an agent of theirs was reported to be arriving in the village soon. Naruto asked Jiraiya to train him since they had the time, but Jiraiya explained he also had to finish the manuscript for his latest novel. After constant procrastination on Jiraiya's part, he eventually fell asleep with his work unfinished. Naruto instead decided to ghostwrite the manuscript for Jiraiya and had a courier ninja deliver it, after bumping into a couple of men and getting their mail mixed together.

When Naruto told Jiraiya what he did, Jiraiya was furious as he feared this would ruin his career as an author. After getting the mail back, Jiraiya was horrified to discover that the package contained a peace treaty between the Land of Fang and Claw who were on the brink of war. Realising that Naruto's manuscript was being sent to the Fang Daimyō and fearing that the Fang Daimyō would view as an insult for war, Jiraiya and Naruto rushed to get the manuscript back. After a heated struggle against the courier ninja, the Fang Daimyō, unfortunately, got the manuscript. But to Naruto and Jiraiya's shock, the Fang Daimyō was a huge fan of the
Icha Icha
 series and thought it was a peace offering from the Land of Claw, effectively causing the war to be cancelled. Later, Jiraiya had to leave as his Akatsuki target had already left the hot springs resort, forcing Naruto to return to Konoha to wait for Jiraiya's return.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Maile Flanagan
Jiraiya
Hochu Otsuka
大塚 芳忠
Ōtsuka Hōchū
David Lodge
Courier ninja 596-03
Yasunori Matsumoto
松本 保典
Matsumoto Yasunori
Tony Oliver
Courier ninja 463-72
Junichi Endo
遠藤 純一
Endō Jun'ichi
Derek Stephen Prince
Courier ninja 184-96
Hitoshi Horimoto
堀本 等
Horimoto Hitoshi
Kyle Hebert
Courier ninja 893-03
Yoshimasa Hosoya
細谷 佳正
Hosoya Yoshimasa
Grant George
Gal Naruto
Ema Kogure
小暮 英麻
Kogure Ema
Mary Elizabeth McGlynn
Bathing woman
Saori Seto
世戸 さおり
Seto Saori
Laura Bailey