Poisons
,
toxins
, and
venoms
 are all poisonous, intoxicating substances - powders, liquids, and gases - that can be used by shinobi in combat. Poisons come with a variety of effects, ranging from body weakness to paralysis and/or death.

Types

Manga Types

There are different types of poison, some more effective than others:

Tsunade has been noted by Jiraiya to be the only person capable of poisoning a ninja without them knowing, as she managed to spike his sake with an odourless, colourless poison that left him unable to properly control his chakra.

Ino Yamanaka
 has been shown to at least have knowledge of poisonous plants, seen early when she threw poisonous plants into
Ami
's mouth.
 She also makes heavy use of
wolfsbane
 in the video games.

Sasori
 had developed such a poison that even if a small amount is introduced into the bloodstream, the affected person will die within two or three days while also being painfully paralysed for the duration. According to Sakura, this poison is refined with heavy metals which gets into the muscles and destroys the cells.
 The antidote for this poison is extremely complex - so much so that no one in
Sunagakure
 was capable of creating it.

Orochimaru
's
true form
's blood is poisonous, and evaporates upon contact with air, paralysing anyone who breathes it in. Its potency is such that even Sasuke Uchiha, who has gained an immunity to most poison, was affected.

One of the poisons taught to Sakura by Shizune is able to be entrenched in kunai and has a delayed effect, as Naruto was cut with it but collapsed some time afterwards.

Sakura also uses
smoke bombs
 that contain a strong knock-out gas that can even render ninja like Sai, Lee, and Kiba unconscious in moments.

Kabuto Yakushi
 has developed a poison which is specifically designed to suppress the
Wood Release
 kekkei genkai.

Hanzō
, in his youth, transplanted the poison sac of a
black salamander
 in his village. He was able to poison the environment just from breathing. He also imbued his
kusarigama
's blade with poison.

There are animals which can produce different types of poisons:

Snakes
,
summoned
 by
Orochimaru
, sometimes are able to secrete venom from their fangs.

Ibuse
 can release a large amount of
Poison Mist
 that almost instantly paralyses anyone that breathes it in.

Garaga
 spits a venom that is able to petrify his victims moments after contact.

There are also several species of insects that use poison in their attacks. Other insects, such as the
kikaichū
, can be cultivated for the purpose of
neutralising poisons and toxins
 used on the
bug-user's
 allies:

Rinkaichū
 -
Torune Aburame
 and
Shikuro Aburame
 can subsequently infect the opponent with these bugs, causing an excruciatingly painful and likely fatal injury unless the afflicted area is swiftly removed. However, there is in fact an antidote, but only Shikuro Aburame knows how to make such an
antidote
.

Kochū
 - Used by
Yōji Aburame
, these insects can infect targets with a poison that will paralyse the victim and kill them shortly afterwards. As the poison disappears upon death, it can't be found during autopsies, making these insects perfect for assassinations, as they are as imperceptible as mosquitoes yet as deadly as scorpions.

Anime Types

Aniki, the leader of the
Moya Triad
, had tried several types of poison against Kakashi, which were to make him hiccup, laugh, and cry uncontrollably until he died from it.

Bees
 - The
Kamizuru clan
 of
Iwagakure
 has ninja bees that can inject venom into a enemy through their
stingers
.

The
Wandering Ninja Clan
 used an
odourless type of poison powder
 that slows down the victims' senses and reaction time.

Fuen used a
poisoned powder
 which caused those who inhaled it to experience controlled
hallucinations
.

The
Sea Route of Silence Gang
 used the
Moulding Mushroom
 to poison their victims and make them easy prey.

Hidari
 and
Ashimaru
 gave
Iori
 a poison to assassinate
Tofu
.

Ryūki
's group used a poison on the kidnapped girls, making them susceptible to suggestion.

The
Land of Haze
 specialises in a poison that can instantly kill its victim, having once claimed a shinobi from
Kumogakure
, and used by the
Haze Quadruplets
 to assassinate
Sakuya
 and her butler.

Usage

Most poison users use poison on their weapons through various means. Sakura, for example, after learning from Shizune coats her
kunai
 with poison so that if she is able to cut the target, they are instantly injected with the toxic substance.

Puppet-users
, such as Kankurō and Sasori, prefer to put poison inside their puppets so that they inject via hidden bladed weapons.
 Sasori, similarly to Sakura, puts poison that is clearly noticeable on the blades of his puppet, the
Third Kazekage
, as well as in his
Iron Sand
, which is far less noticeable.

Poison may be used in other forms, not only as a liquid substance. It can be used in a mist form, as demonstrated by
Shizune
 with her
Poison Mist
 technique.
 Inhaling the slightest bit of poison can prove fatal, as seen when Sasori trapped Sakura in two consecutive waves of his poison mist.
 Such vapours can also be used for paralysing effects, as
Ibuse
 demonstrated.

Combating Poisons

See also:
Antidote

Certain characters have encountered poisons throughout their careers as ninja. Those skilled in the fields of chemistry and biology are capable of producing antidotes to the poisons.
Tsunade
, during the
Second Shinobi World War
, was able to produce antidotes to every one of
Chiyo
's poisons, much to the latter's resentment.
 During the mission to rescue Gaara,
Sakura Haruno
 demonstrated the skill to not only
extract
 and analyse Sasori's poison swiftly, but also produced an
antidote
 to counter it, something Chiyo could not do.

Apart from using antidotes to poisons, a ninja can also work to
build-up a tolerance to certain poisons
 by gradually exposing oneself to non-lethal amounts of those poisons.
Orochimaru
, in the effort to make
Sasuke Uchiha
 into the perfect vessel for his
Living Corpse Reincarnation
 technique, made it a point to make Sasuke immune to most poisons, such as the one that
Shizune
 taught to Sakura Haruno in order to use on her
kunai
.
 Anko was seemingly put under the same regime during her time with Orochimaru.
 Mifune has been shown to have built up an immunity to both
Hanzō
 and
Ibuse
's
poison
.

When Naruto was poisoned by The
Demon Brothers
 with their
poisoned gauntlets
, Kakashi told him that they could treat his wound by cutting him and letting the blood flush out the poison. This method of treating poisoned wounds has not been mentioned since and is presumably only viable in certain situations.

When
Chōji Akimichi
 was struck with a poisoned needle, he used the
Multi-Size Technique
 to increase his size to counter it. Due to the needle only possessing enough poison to kill a regular-sized person, it would be harmless to his enlarged form. He would remain in his large size until his body breaks down the poison.

Trivia

Tsunade
 likened the
Wind Release: Rasenshuriken
 to poison due to the cellular damage it inflicts on the user if used at melee range, potentially leading the user to be crippled as backlash.

After Naruto attacked Sakura in his
four-tailed form
, she briefly fell ill as a result of some chakra from the
Nine-Tailed Demon Fox
 entering her body through her wounds. This caused Yamato to compare the Nine-Tails chakra to a poison. Naruto himself was also negatively affected, with the caustic chakra burning away his skin.

References