"
Potential Value
" (
利用価値
,
Riyō Kachi
) is chapter 50 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 manga.

Summary

Naruto
 questions
Boruto
 about their location. Boruto explains that he used the
Kāma
 to take them to another dimension, and confesses that he doesn't know where they are, being more concerned with keeping
Isshiki
 from destroying
Konoha
. Naruto thinks Boruto got this attitude from him. Isshiki rushes at them and grabs Boruto. He inspects Boruto and determines the decompression of
Momoshiki
's Kāma on him to be about 80% complete.
Sasuke

switches positions
 with Boruto and attempts a
Chidori
, but Isshiki grabs his arm and kicks him aside. Isshiki reasons that if he simply returns to Konoha, they'll merely chase him there, and decides to kill them there, hoping it'll break the villagers' will and they'll reveal
Kawaki
's location. Naruto is insulted by the idea, claiming they won't go easily. Kawaki dreams of
Jigen
's words before waking up next to
Amado
.
Shikamaru
 receives reports that Naruto's, Sasuke's, Boruto's and Isshiki's chakra have disappeared. Kawaki notices his Kāma has disappeared, and Amado updates him on what has happened since he passed out. Shikamaru claims he is now free, but Kawaki points out Isshiki is still after him to brand him again. Kawaki is concerned about Isshiki being out there, but Amado points out he can only survive in Jigen's body for a few days, and they only need to avoid him branding Kawaki again.
 Naruto attacks Isshiki, who
shrinks
 his
Rasengan
. Boruto cheers Naruto as he assaults Isshiki with
chakra arms
. Isshiki attacks from behind and Naruto resorts to shadow clones. Naruto holds Isshiki in place with chakra arms for Sasuke to land a Chidori, but Isshiki manifests
several cubes
 and attacks, destroying Naruto's clones. Sasuke determines the blocks to be separate from Isshiki's shrinking abilities. He blocks Isshiki's attacks with his sword, but Isshiki shrinks it out of his grasp, knocking him down, and enlarges the sword again to kill him. Boruto notices Sasuke's dire situation and rushes at them. Shikamaru relays the others witness reports of what happened.
Katasuke
 is concerned that Boruto isn't strong enough to oppose Isshiki, but Amado speculates Boruto has become aware of his potential value against Isshiki. Isshiki freezes when Boruto puts himself between him and Sasuke, allowing Boruto to take him to safety. Isshiki asks if Boruto wants to die, but Boruto calls his bluff, asking why he didn't kill both of them in one strike when he had the chance. He determines that Isshiki can't kill him. Amado thinks that Boruto is the key to defeating Isshiki.