This article is about the episode. For the chapter, see
Predestined Fate
.

"
Predestined Fate
" (
宿命
,
Shukumei
) is episode 214 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Koji
 observes
Jigen
 struggle with the flames.
Boruto
 questions if Jigen won't simply absorb them with the
Kāma
.
Katasuke
 notes they're not dying down, and
Kawaki
 deduces they're natural flames summoned from elsewhere not derived from chakra, explaining why Jigen can't absorb them.
Amado
 explains it to the
Konoha
 shinobi. The flames begin to diminish, and
Sasuke
 determines that instead of absorbing them, Jigen is
shrinking
 them. Amado details Jigen's shrinking ability.
Shikamaru
 questions how Koji will deal with it, and Amado reveals there's a reason they've waited until now to make a move. Jigen begins to run out of chakra, and unable to keep shrinking the flames, starts to be consumed. Amado tells
Naruto
 and Sasuke that Jigen had yet to fully recover from fighting them, limiting how much he can shrink anything. Naruto finds it an abrupt end, but Sasuke chastises him, reminding him there's a Kāma in play. He summarises what Amado has explained so far. However, he questions the fact that if Jigen is killed, Kawaki would be his remaining vessel, the one Amado said would make
Isshiki
 unstoppable.
 An enraged Kawaki barges into the room, attacking Amado, but is stopped by Sasuke. Katasuke instructs
Sumire
 to alert
Akita
 and other lab works to prepare for video analysis. Amado greets Kawaki, who insults him. He continues, revealing that when Jigen perishes from the flames in moments, and Isshiki along with him, it'll trigger the Kāma. While both Jigen and Kawaki have Kāma, Jigen's has had time to fully extract Isshiki's data, while Kawaki's hasn't, and therefore can't act as a vessel yet. Boruto thinks Amado means to kill Kawaki before it can happen. Amado admits that is an option. He turns their attention to the feed, and reveals that even if Jigen dies, his branded corpse can still act as a vessel for Isshiki's resurrection. Amado comments on how fortuitous it is that Kawaki is there, wanting to confirm something about to happen with his body. Kawaki's Kāma flares up and recedes, and Amado has Boruto confirm the Kāma on Kawaki's palm vanished. On the battlefield, the flames all shrink suddenly. He explains that when a Kāma resurrection takes place, all other Kāma in other vessels are erased, presumably a safety feature to avoid creating multiple copies of the same individual, and when that happens, an Ōtsutsuki can be permanently killed, until they brand another vessel. Isshiki emerges from the smoke, and begins shrinking everything in the vicinity, including the
toad
, cutting off the transmission. Naruto asks about Koji, and Amado deems the plan mostly fruitful, saying Koji served his purpose. Naruto asks if Koji knew he wasn't meant to survive, and feels like he fought like he truly wanted to kill Isshiki. He can't explain why he's so concerned for Koji when Amado asks him. Isshiki shrinks Koji's mask, and realises that Koji is a clone of
Jiraiya
, whose change-bringing fate Amado had clung to. Isshiki walks towards him, shrinking Koji's attacks. Koji
grabs him with his hair
 and tosses him around, but Isshiki shrinks and escapes. He tries
stabbing
 Isshiki when he gets close, but Isshiki avoids it. Isshiki ponders that Jigen's body will only last a few days, and Kawaki's Kāma has been removed, praising Amado's planning. He taunts Koji, telling him Amado doesn't think he has enough power to kill him, presuming him to have fled to Konoha so Naruto and Sasuke can kill him. He deems Koji a sacrificial pawn, having fulfilled his purpose in forcing Isshiki's resurrection in Jigen's body. Koji enters
Sage Mode
. Amado goes over his deal, and is informed of the rights it affords him and conditions required of him. Shikamaru demands he remove the explosive collar from
Shikadai
, but Amado reveals it to be a decoy, having only used a real one on the tree to force a negotiation. Turning the subject back to Isshiki, Amado thinks only Naruto and Sasuke are strong enough to defeat him, but stresses that their main concern right now is protect Kawaki, who Isshiki will want to rebrand before his time in Jigen's body runs out, ignoring combat with Naruto and Sasuke, and suggests evacuating the village, where he'll come looking. He proposes that Kawaki be hidden, and Sasuke and Naruto keep close to him, to fight off Isshiki if he discovers Kawaki's location, until he expires. Koji
attacks
 Isshiki, trying to use
wide flames
 to block the line of sight for his dōjutsu. He tries to pin Isshiki between flames and an
Ultra-Big Ball Rasengan
, but Isshiki
pins
 him with the stone pillars he shrunk before.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Kawaki
Yuma Uchida
内田 雄馬
Uchida Yūma
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Sasuke Uchiha
Noriaki Sugiyama
杉山 紀彰
Sugiyama Noriaki
Shikamaru Nara
Shotaro Morikubo
森久保 祥太郎
Morikubo Shōtarō
Sai Yamanaka
Satoshi Hino
日野 聡
Hino Satoshi
Katasuke Tōno
Taira Kikumoto
菊本 平
Kikumoto Taira
Sumire Kakei
Aya Endo
遠藤 綾
Endō Aya
Amado
Akio Otsuka
大塚 明夫
Ōtsuka Akio
Koji Kashin
Yuichi Nakamura
中村 悠一
Nakamura Yūichi
Isshiki Ōtsutsuki
Kenjiro Tsuda
津田 健次郎
Tsuda Kenjirō