This article is about the chapter. For the episode, see
Prepared (episode)
.

"
Prepared
" (
覚悟
,
Kakugo
) is chapter 49 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 manga.

Summary

Konoha
 civilians notice
Isshiki
 floating above them. Shinobi inform them of an emergency alert and issue evacuation orders. Isshiki looks for
Kawaki
 with his
Byakugan
. Via
Ino
,
Shikamaru
 warns all the shinobi that only
Naruto
 and
Sasuke
 are to engage Isshiki in combat. Naruto leaves to fight Isshiki, and tells
Boruto
 he's also to evacuate. Isshiki questions Konoha shinobi about Kawaki's location, threatening to attack civilians. One of them confesses that they don't have the information. Shikamaru wants to leave,
Sai
 grabs the unconscious Kawaki, and suggests hiding in an old, secret
Anbu
 underground facility. Shikamaru wants
Amado
 to come with them, who expresses concern for Isshiki's Byakugan finding them out. Sai reassures him that the facility is protected against such abilities. Shikamaru thanks Sasuke, and tells Boruto to come along. Sasuke wants to have a word with Boruto first. Isshiki is surprised to find Naruto out of his seal. Sasuke confesses to Boruto that he and Naruto barely made any damage to
Jigen
 before. He explains that
Sarada
 told him what happened during the fight against
Boro
, and having heard Amado's explanation, Boruto knows it was
Momoshiki
 who defeated him. Sasuke raises the possibility of Boruto's
Kāma
 starting to override him. Boruto is prepared to die fighting, even if it scares him, but he is worried about what he might do if his body is taken over.
 Naruto refuses to tell Isshiki where Kawaki is, so he puts civilians in danger. The two start fighting. Isshiki kicks Naruto through a couple buildings. Sasuke
switches places
 with Isshiki. Isshiki reminds them how he defeated them before. Sasuke instructs Naruto to cover with shuriken and kunai. They both use them, though Isshiki
shrinks
 them. Sasuke throws his sword, which Isshiki can't shrink, surprising him. The sword transforms back into Boruto, who has his Kāma activated. Sasuke had promised to Boruto to stop him if Momoshiki takes him over, even if he has to kill him, making the promise as his teacher as Naruto probably wouldn't be able to do it. Boruto asked for Sasuke's forehead protector again. Boruto uses his Kāma to
create a rift
, taking himself and Isshiki away from
Konohagakure
. Sasuke tracks Boruto's chakra. Isshiki wonders how much of Momoshiki's Kāma Boruto can use. Sasuke and Naruto arrive at their location, where Boruto tells them they can fight all out. They all prepare to fight.