"
Presence
" (
気配
,
Kehai
) is episode 290 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Boruto
 is frustrated by
constant surveillance
 as he and
Kawaki
 spend time with
Shikadai
 and
Inojin
. Kawaki notes Inojin's mention of the
sensory team
 being able to
locate
 any potential enemy unless they're able to
erase their chakra signature
.
Amado
 joins
Shikamaru
, and tries to assure him that
Code
, while powerful, isn't as bright. Shikamaru is still suspicious of Amado, thinking that events are unfolding according to some plan. Amado says most recent events have been unexpected, such as him defecting to
Konoha
, and most of all Kawaki's attachment to
Naruto
. Shikamaru wonders if it's possible that Code's devotion to
Isshiki
 could have wavered, explaining his lack of action against them, but they find it unlikely. At night, Kawaki takes out the trash under Nishi's watch, going through a shrub on his way back. Boruto finds something strange when he returns. He feels a presence from outside, where the real Kawaki is hiding in the shrub. Nishi still
senses
 Kawaki and Boruto inside.
Ada
 reports to Code that Kawaki erased his chakra signature, something that comes naturally to all
Ōtsutsuki
, and wonders if he's up to something.
 Boruto tries talking to the Kawaki in the bathroom, feeling he's up to something. He tries telling Naruto about sensing Kawaki's presence outside, but Nishi reports sensing Kawaki still inside the house. Boruto believes Kawaki is using a
shadow clone
 as a decoy, but Naruto points out those would still be sensed. Naruto asks to see Kawaki, who opens the door and releases the shadow clone. The real Kawaki goes outside the village, Ada informing Code about it. Code travels to a nearby
Claw Mark
, and speaks to Ada through another, asking her to guide him to Kawaki. Code reaches Kawaki, marking him and using the Claw Mark to close the distance.
Ino

connects
 Naruto and Shikamaru, who discuss why Kawaki would leave when he was acclimating well to the village. Naruto tells Ino Kawaki erased his chakra signature, and Boruto tells him he can no longer sense Kawaki, finding he's too far away. Naruto wants Boruto to leave it to them, but Boruto leaves while they're distracted. Amado asks how they could have lost Kawaki, and Shikamaru says he ran away on his own, speculating on his motive. Boruto goes in the direction he last sensed Kawaki, hoping that the sensors will track him while he tracks Kawaki. Kawaki and Code fight, Ada warning Code not to accidentally kill him. Code diverts a
blast
 from Kawaki with a Claw Mark. Code asks why he left the village, and Kawaki wants Code to kill just him as revenge for Isshiki, leaving Konoha out of it. Code refuses it and beats Kawaki around, despite Ada's protests. Code reveals he has inherited Isshiki's will to cultivate a
God Tree
 and eat its chakra fruit. He surprises Kawaki by saying he's off his revenge list because someone else wants to meet him, and prepares to take Kawaki with him. Boruto arrives just in time to interfere. Ada informs Code that Boruto could still sense Kawaki and went after him. Boruto and Kawaki scold each other for getting themselves in danger. Boruto says they'll sense him and send reinforcements, but Kawaki thinks that defeats the point of what he did, willing to die himself to protect Naruto. He wants Code to take him to whoever wants to meet him, since talking to Code is getting him nowhere. Ada is flustered about Kawaki wanting to meet her. Boruto and Kawaki argue over what's happening, and Boruto punches him when he says what Naruto wants and thinks doesn't matter to what Kawaki does to keep him safe. Ada also gets flustered by Boruto's commitment to Kawaki, calling him a brother. Boruto activates his
Kāma
.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Kawaki
Yuma Uchida
内田 雄馬
Uchida Yūma
Naruto
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Hinata
Nana Mizuki
水樹 奈々
Mizuki Nana
Himawari
Saori Hayami
早見 沙織
Hayami Saori
Shikamaru
Shotaro Morikubo
森久保 祥太郎
Morikubo Shōtarō
Shikadai
Kensho Ono
小野 賢章
Ono Kenshō
Inojin
Atsushi Abe
阿部 敦
Abe Atsushi
Ino
Ryoka Yuzuki
柚木 涼香
Yuzuki Ryōka
Nishi
Kosuke Katayama
片山 公輔
Katayama Kōsuke
Amado
Akio Otsuka
大塚 明夫
Ōtsuka Akio
Code
Junta Terashima
寺島 惇太
Terashima Junta
Ada
Kana Hanazawa
花澤 香菜
Hanazawa Kana
Drama actors
Sara Matsumoto
Ryo Nishitani
松本 沙羅
西谷 亮
Matsumoto Sara
Nishitani Ryō