This article is about information on the character. For information on the ability, see
Preta Path
.

This man was a
shinobi
 and a farmer of
Kusagakure
.

Background

The man whose body was later used as the
Preta Path
 was a Kusagakure ninja, whom
Jiraiya
 met during his travels around the world. In the anime, it was shown that he was both a ninja and a farmer, who had failed to cultivate the land for his family due to his participation in war. After his death, his body was used by
Nagato
 as one of his
Six Paths of Pain
.

Appearance

the Preta Path's appearance when alive.
the Preta Path's appearance as one of Nagato's Six Paths.
1/2

He was a tall, stocky man with beady brown eyes. He had brown hair that was hidden by a bandanna-like forehead protector and wore a tan-coloured shirt with a black shirt underneath. His complexion was also noticeably darker when he was alive.

While his corpse was being used as the Preta Path he, like all of the Six Paths of Pain, is covered in piercings which acted as
chakra receivers
 for Nagato to remotely control the corpse. Other than his hair is dyed orange and tied in a short ponytail, Nagato's Preta Path has small spiked piercings covering his entire bottom lip, two vertical spike studs on the front of his nose, one spike stud on each cheek, a spike going through each ear and a stud on each of his shoulders, close to his neck. As a mark of Nagato's control, the
Rinnegan
 appeared in its eyes.

Legacy






The Preta Path destroyed.



As part of the Six Paths of Pain, the Preta Path is used for a number of different purposes over the years: all six Paths are used to overthrow and kill
Hanzō
; when Jiraiya infiltrates
Amegakure
 in order to find out more about
Akatsuki
, the Preta Path fights him and ultimately contributes to his death; in the anime, the Preta Path assists in the capture of the
Six-Tails
; it participates during
Pain's Assault
, and like the other Paths it is defeated by
Naruto Uzumaki
.

In Other Media

Video Games

Preta Path (character) is a playable character in the following video games:

Game name
Japanese release
English release
Naruto Mobile
2016
2016
Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Online
14 April 2013
20 July 2016