"
Proof of Oneself
" (
自分の証明
,
Jibun no Shōmei
) is episode 9 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Hiashi
 explains to
Boruto
 that if he has awakened the
Byakugan
, it will manifest itself in battle even if Boruto can't activate it at will, something both he and
Hanabi
 will be able to tell. Hanabi decides to take her father's place, sure it will be all for nothing if he simply throws his back out in the fight. Boruto is up for it.
Himawari
 asks
Naruto
 if Boruto will be okay, as they watch him and Hanabi sparring. Naruto assures her Boruto will be ok. Boruto tries making a distraction using shadow clones and a flash bomb, but Hanabi sees through it. Boruto goes at it once more, this time managing to surround Hanabi with his shadow clones, but she repels them with
Eight Trigrams Palms Revolving Heaven
.
 Hanabi tells Boruto there is no sign of the Byakugan having awakened in him, but assures him it's still possible it will. Boruto tries disguising his disappointment. Hiashi invites them to spend the night. During dinner, Hanabi plays with Boruto and Himawari, Hiashi telling Naruto not to mind them, as it's a special day. By themselves, Naruto and Hiashi discuss Boruto. Naruto isn't disappointed in Boruto for not awakening the Byakugan, happy that despite it not happening, Boruto tried so hard to prove it did. Hiashi asks about Himawari, Naruto telling him she hasn't manifested the Byakugan since it first awakened. Hiashi asks Naruto to keep him updated and to bring her again if anything else happens. Hanabi talks to Boruto, sure something has happened, otherwise he wouldn't have claimed to have awakened the Byakugan, nor sparred so seriously to prove it. Boruto bumps into
Sarada
 at night, and the two briefly discuss Kagemasa from the movies. Boruto catches a glimpse of someone possessed by the
spectre
, and follows him to the Academy. He recognises him as the
actor
 who plays Kagemasa, who has put on some weight. He attacks Boruto over his comments on his physique. When he has Boruto pinned down, Sarada deflects one of his attacks. Hidden, Boruto explains the actor's been possessed by a shadow only he can see. Boruto and Sarada defeat the actor using lines from the movie and a diversion with Boruto transformed into a fūma shuriken. Boruto watches the shadow dissipate. The next day, Boruto updates
Mitsuki
 and
Shikadai
 on his eye, saying he doesn't care if it's not the Byakugan, and he just has to prove he has it.

Trivia

When Boruto and Sarada deceived Kagemasa with their Fūma shuriken/transformation ruse, it was very similar to the manoeuvre Naruto and
Sasuke
 used against
Zabuza Momochi
, each fulfilling the same role their parents did. Additionally, both events happen on the same episode of their respective series.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Amanda Miller
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Cherami Leigh
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Robbie Daymond
Shikadai Nara
Kensho Ono
小野 賢章
Ono Kenshō
Todd Haberkorn
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Maile Flanagan
Himawari Uzumaki
Saori Hayami
早見 沙織
Hayami Saori
Melissa Fahn
Hiashi Hyūga
Eizo Tsuda
津田 英三
Tsuda Eizō
John Demita
Hanabi Hyūga
Kiyomi Asai
浅井 清己
Asai Kiyomi
Colleen O'Shaughnessey
Kagemasa
Kazutaka Ishii
石井 一貴
Ishii Kazutaka
Christopher Corey Smith