The
Puppet Technique
 is the core skill of a puppeteer's (
傀儡使い
,
kugutsutsukai
) fighting style, whereby they control a
puppet
.

Overview

The modern version of the Puppet Technique used by
shinobi
 was first created by
Monzaemon Chikamatsu
 of
Sunagakure
.
 Monzaemon originally intended the Puppet Technique for purely entertainment purposes, but by collaborating with shinobi he adapted the skill for combat.
[
citation needed
]
 In the years following the technique's creation, Suna's shinobi became pioneers in the art of puppetry, with its
Puppet Brigade
 being given the specific mandate of finding new ways to use and exploit puppets for battle.





Chakra Threads.



Performing the Puppet Technique involves emitting
chakra
 threads (
チャクラの糸­
,
Chakura no Ito
) from a user's fingers to connect to a puppet, with the fingers' movements controlling the puppet's actions.
 Less experienced users will connect all ten of their fingers to a single puppet, with each finger controlling a specific joint or mechanism. As a user becomes more experienced they require fewer threads to control a single puppet, until finally they can control a puppet using only one thread. With this growing mastery, users also become able to control multiple puppets at a time, ten being the normal limit (one per finger).
 No matter how many threads are being used per puppet, the user's will plays a large role in a puppet's movements, thus creating an inevitable time lag between the user's commands and the puppet's response.

Controlling a puppet requires most of a puppeteer's attentions and maintaining the threads is a constant drain on their chakra.
 Not only does this mean a puppeteer is vulnerable when they are controlling a puppet, it also tends to mean they cannot fight very well without one, as their combat style relies so heavily on them. As such, puppeteers try very hard to hide or at least keep their distance from opponents.
  In the event that an opponent gets too close, some puppeteers have devised countermeasures: certain puppets created by
Sasori
, such as
Sanshōuo
 and
Hiruko
, are intended to be controlled from the inside, acting as shields for their puppeteers;

Chiyo
 replaced one of her arms with a
Mechanical Light Shield Block
, giving her a defensive option to use in emergencies;

Kankurō
 is in the habit of disguising puppets as himself, causing opponents that attack him to instead fall into his puppets' clutches.
 It should also be noted that, while the Chakra Threads are difficult to notice, it is possible to cut them, effectively disabling the puppet in the process.
 The threads can also be used to wrap around opponents in order to restrict their movements.

Because puppeteers rely on their puppets for almost all aspects of combat, keeping the puppets safe is of paramount importance. At the simplest, this means not allowing the puppets to be destroyed or otherwise disabled.
 More than that, it is also vital to keep how a puppet works secret from opponents. If an opponent knows what weapons or traps a puppet is outfitted with, the puppeteer will lose the advantage of surprise that so often gives them the upperhand.
 If an opponent knows how a puppet is designed – which, unlike weapons and traps, cannot be greatly altered by the puppeteer – they can focus their attacks on the puppet's structural weaknesses.

If a puppeteer does lose their puppet in battle (or if they merely opt not to use one), the chakra threads remain a versatile tool. The threads can be connected to opponents to impede their movements, such as by tripping them, or to take
control
 of their body, using them as a puppet.
 To prevent opponents from noticing that they're being manipulated, puppeteers will use a minimal amount of chakra to create the threads, rendering them invisible. If chakra threads are
attached to weapons
, such as
kunai
, this not only allows users to throw multiple weapons at a time, but also allows them an easy method of connecting their threads to distant targets.
 Puppeteers can attach chakra threads to faraway targets even without this subterfuge, giving them a quick way to bring objects to their side.

Centuries before Monzaemon created his version of the Puppet Technique, the
Ōtsutsuki clan
 used a different version that had fewer of the above drawbacks.
 The Ōtsutsuki were able to control their puppets (or other people) remotely from seemingly any distance. The novelization of
The Last: Naruto the Movie
 explains that this was achieved by placing orbs of chakra within the puppets' bodies, allowing the Ōtsutsuki to control their puppets through thought alone. Over time, these puppets became mostly autonomous, requiring no conscious effort to control and only needing the
Tenseigan
 to power their movements. In
Gaara Hiden
, after Kankurō studies reports of the Ōtsutsuki's puppets, he achieves a similar effect by using imperceptibly thin chakra threads; although this doesn't make his puppets autonomous, it does significantly increase the range he can control them from.

Known Styles

White Secret Technique
 (
白秘技
,
Shirohigi
) - practised by Monzaemon and Chiyo.

Red Secret Technique
 (
赤秘技
,
Akahigi
) - practised by Sasori and Kankurō.

Black Secret Technique
 (
黒秘技
,
Kurohigi
) - practised by Kankurō and Shinki.

Trivia

Sasori converted himself into a puppet in order to overcome many of the Puppet Technique's shortcomings: he can control one hundred puppets simultaneously, experiences no time lag between command and movement because his puppets are directly attached to his "core",
 and close combat doesn't have any lasting impact on him since his body isn't flesh and blood.

In
Naruto Shippūden the Movie: The Lost Tower
,
Mukade
 could use this technique to control thousands of puppets at a very long range. He achieved this by connecting his chakra threads to pipes that distributed chakra across
Rōran
, expanding the number of threads and distance he could cover.

In some
Naruto
 video games, Kankurō demonstrates greater versatility in hand-to-hand combat than puppeteers are said to possesses, as he mixes his puppet control with haymakers and other forms of taijutsu.

References