"
Puppet Fight: 10 vs 100!
" (
十機vs百機
,
Jukki vs Hyakki
) is episode 26 of the
Naruto: Shippūden
 anime.

Synopsis

Sakura
 and
Chiyo
 continue their battle with
Sasori
, who is using
flamethrowers
 on the rocks the pair are hiding behind. Chiyo attempts to attack Sasori using the head of the
Third Kazekage puppet
, but Sasori incinerates it. Sasori switches tactics and uses his
Water Stream Shooters
 to destroy the rocks and the surrounding environment. Using the
poison
 stinger attached to the coiled rope from his
puppet body
, Sasori attempts to stab them, but Sakura, who is still under the effects of the
antidote
, grabs the poisoned coiled rope and uses her strength to pull it. Sasori deems the action useless and charges at Chiyo, spinning the propeller blades attached to his body at a high speed. Before he can decimate Chiyo, Sakura manages to pull all of the rope, halting his attack and sending him flying towards her. Using her
Chakra Enhanced Strength
, she is able to shatter the puppet, sending his core of living flesh out of the body. Sakura believes the battle to be won and runs towards Chiyo, but the core reinserts itself into Sasori's puppet body, which is then reassembled.

Seeing this, Chiyo uses the
White Secret Technique: The Chikamatsu Collection of Ten Puppets
, summoning the ten puppets created by the first Puppet Master
Monzaemon Chikamatsu
. Chiyo refers to the technique as her trump card, as it takes veritable skill controlling ten puppets at once and only uses the technique in a life-or-death situation. Sasori commends the move, expecting no less from his esteemed grandmother; however, he counters with his
Red Secret Technique: Performance of a Hundred Puppets
, summoning one hundred
puppets
. Sakura uses her strength to fight Sasori's puppets and Chiyo does the same with the help of her Ten Puppets, showcasing that quality exceeds quantity, as Chiyo's ten puppets are far stronger than Sasori's one hundred. Chiyo and Sakura seem to trap and defeat Sasori using
Sealing Technique: Lion Closing Roar
, but, under the cover of battle, Sasori secretly transfers the only living part of his body — his core — into another puppet. Sakura once more believes the battle to be won and runs towards Chiyo, this time to heal the latter with the antidote, as she had been struck with poison during the blade. Sasori rushes towards Chiyo with a poison-tipped sword, intent on killing his grandmother, but Sakura uses herself as a shield and is stabbed in her torso.

Trivia

In the English dubbed version, when Sakura pulls Sasori back with the coiled rope, she screams: "Get over here!" This is a possible reference to the character
Scorpion
 from the 'Mortal Kombat' franchise, who shouts the same line when performing a similar move. This is further evidenced by the fact that Sasori's name means "Scorpion."

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Maile Flanagan
Sakura Haruno
Chie Nakamura
中村 千絵
Nakamura Chie
Kate Higgins
Kakashi Hatake
Kazuhiko Inoue
井上 和彦
Inoue Kazuhiko
Dave Wittenberg
Chiyo
Ikuko Tani
谷 育子
Tani Ikuko
Barbara Goodson
Sasori
Takahiro Sakurai
櫻井 孝宏
Sakurai Takahiro
Johnny Yong Bosch
Deidara
Katsuhiko Kawamoto
川本 克彦
Kawamoto Katsuhiko
Roger Craig Smith