"
Qualifications
" (
資格
,
Shikaku
) is episode 289 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Kawaki
 wakes up from a nightmare where as a young child, he was chased around by
Code
, who was angry and jealous of Kawaki becoming
Jigen
's vessel.
Sumire
 and
Amado
 are done with his check-up. Kawaki complains that Code is still after him, even though he's no longer a vessel. Amado corrects him, pointing out that while
Isshiki
's soul has vanished and can no longer possess him, the
Ōtsutsuki
 changes to his body remain. Kawaki gets hostile with Amado, until he points out that Kawaki needs more power to protect
Naruto
 from Code. Amado thinks Naruto would die against Code now that he has lost
Kurama
, and suggests Kawaki get a new
Kāma
 that acts only as a weapon now that Isshiki's soul is gone. Kawaki hates the Kāma, but Amado finds him rational enough to grasp for any available power to achieve his goals. He reminds Kawaki that they're both outsiders, who will be tossed out when they're no longer useful.
Ada
 finds Kawaki's situation too painful to watch. Code refuses to spare Naruto in addition to Kawaki when Ada asks for it. Ada bosses
Bug
 around, who reminds them there are still many armed guards in the facility.
 He points out they'll get nothing done if they stay there, secretly wishing for them to leave him behind. Ada is in no rush to act, as the five villages are looking for Code. She is confident she can spot an opportunity with her
Senrigan
 when it presents itself and seize it. Code wishes he could remove his limiters, and thinks that he and Ada could take on Naruto and
Sasuke
. Ada says her combat abilities are low. She'll be Code's eyes and ears, while he'll be her knight. He asks her what she'll do if Kawaki attacks her, pointing that being immune to her entrancing, he and
Boruto
 are capable of taking action against her. She invites Code to meet her other knight.
Team 10
 spot Kawaki walking around with a grim expression, thinking back to Amado's words.
Shikadai
 takes him aside when he starts drawing attention. They try to assure him of his place in
Konoha
.
Himawari
 is training for an upcoming test. Boruto asks her, but she hasn't seen Kawaki. She asks him to spar with her. He refuses, concerned that the Kāma will act up. Sumire asks Amado about his offer to Kawaki. He explains the situation comparing Isshiki, Kawaki, and the Kāma to a homeowner, house, and doorway. Sumire suspects Amado has an ulterior motive for wishing to restore Kawaki's Kāma, something else he wants Kawaki to do. Amado admits it's a personal matter he's unwilling to share with her, as it doesn't concern her. He assures her he has no intention of harming Konoha. Sumire sees a container next do him. Code asks Ada about her other knight, who tells him he's the only person other than an Ōtsutsuki who can kill her. Bug protests against waking that person up, but follows through.
Daemon
 immediately jumps on top of Code, and Ada warns him not to attack her younger brother. Daemon teases Code. The armed guards arrive, and Bug warns them to stay away, or they'll be killed. The guards attacks backfire on them, and Daemon begins attack them himself. Ada confirms to Code that Daemon can
reflect

killing intent
 as tangible effects. Daemon kills the remaining guards. Code attempts to mark Daemon, but his ability activates regardless of his intent, reflecting the
Claw Marks
. Code demonstrates his ability to Daemon. He asks Daemon about his ability, and Ada has to stop Daemon from explaining too much. Code wonders if Ada herself is keeping yet another ability hidden.
Hinata
 asks Boruto about Kawaki, but he's still out.
Shikamaru
 and Shikadai discuss Kawaki while playing shogi. Naruto finds Kawaki at the
Hokage Rock
. Kawaki feels like an outsider, so Naruto takes him back home for a welcome dinner. Boruto gifts Kawaki his
forehead protector
 after breaking his original one. Kawaki says Boruto won't have one, but Boruto points out he has Sasuke's. After dinner, Himawari confides in Kawaki that she thinks Boruto is worried about something, as he started training a lot. She feels she can't help Boruto yet, and asks Kawaki to do it if he goes overboard. Kawaki says he will. Kawaki remains concerned despite Naruto's assurances that he belongs, and that they'll do something about Code. He doesn't think he needs a Kāma, and finds there's still something he can do to protect Konoha and Naruto.

Trivia

This episode's ending credits take place during scenes instead of the usual ending.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Kawaki
Yuma Uchida
内田 雄馬
Uchida Yūma
Naruto
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Hinata
Nana Mizuki
水樹 奈々
Mizuki Nana
Himawari
Saori Hayami
早見 沙織
Hayami Saori
Shikamaru
Shotaro Morikubo
森久保 祥太郎
Morikubo Shōtarō
Shikadai
Kensho Ono
小野 賢章
Ono Kenshō
Inojin
Atsushi Abe
阿部 敦
Abe Atsushi
Chōchō
Ryoko Shiraishi
白石 涼子
Shiraishi Ryōko
Amado
Akio Otsuka
大塚 明夫
Ōtsuka Akio
Sumire
Aya Endo
遠藤 綾
Endō Aya
Code
Junta Terashima
寺島 惇太
Terashima Junta
Ada
Kana Hanazawa
花澤 香菜
Hanazawa Kana
Daemon
Yumiri Hanamori
花守 ゆみり
Hanamori Yumiri
Bug
Takumi Yamazaki
山崎 たくみ
Yamazaki Takumi
Security guards
Katsunori Okai
Ryo Nishitani
Kosuke Katayama
Hirokazu Sekido
Kazuya Saji
岡井 カツノリ
西谷 亮
片山 公輔
関戸 博一
佐治 和也
Okai Katsunori
Nishitani Ryō
Katayama Kōsuke
Sekido Hirokazu
Saji Kazuya