Raidō Namiashi
 (
並足ライドウ
,
Namiashi Raidō
) is a
tokubetsu jōnin
 of
Konohagakure
 who serves as an
elite bodyguard
 to the
Hokage
.

Background






Raidō at his entrance ceremony.



During his entrance ceremony into the
Academy
, Raidō was present when
Obito Uchiha
 arrived late.

In the anime, during the
Chūnin Exams
, Raidō was placed in a team with
Kurenai Yūhi
 and
Asuma Sarutobi
.

Not much else is known about Raidō's background except for the fact he is regarded highly for his assassination skills.
 He is also an elite guard to the Hokage. During his time serving under the
Fourth Hokage
, he was taught the
Flying Thunder Formation Technique
, the seal for which they have marked on the
Fifth Hokage
, so that they can travel to her at any time.

Personality

Raidō is a calm and collected individual who holds a deep loyalty toward Konoha. He's been described as strict, serious, clumsy and methodical.
 He has also been described as having a powerful spirit that never yields to adversity.

Appearance

Raidō's most distinct feature is probably the weal-like scar on his face, running across the bridge of his nose and down across the left side of his face. He has brown spiky hair, dark eyes and wears the standard attire of the Konoha shinobi complete with a
forehead protector
 and the standard
flak jacket
. He also tends to wear small appendages on his hand ranging from black bandages to metal rings on his fingers.

As a child, he wore a red coloured bandage over the bridge of his nose and a red shirt with white trimmings.

Abilities

A well noted veteran shinobi who supports the village with his extensive experience and skills, Raidō is known throughout Konoha as a prominent assassin.
 Given his status as a guard for the Hokage, and the fact that the
Sound Four
 needed to activate the second stage of their cursed seals in order to defeat him and
Genma Shiranui
 when they were both heavily fatigued from a mission, is a testament to the fact that he is a formidable shinobi.

Kenjutsu






Raidō wielding Kokutō.



Raidō is skilled in
kenjutsu
, which was displayed when Hidan and Kakuzu attempted to kill Kotetsu and Izumo, Raidō successfully attacked, and fended off Kakuzu with a unique sword called "
Kokutō
" — a katana with a darkened, non-reflective surface, which is also coated in
poison
.

Ninjutsu

Space–Time Ninjutsu

Raidō has also shown some aptitude with
Space–Time Ninjutsu
 as he is able to use the
Flying Thunder Formation Technique
, which was taught to him by the
Fourth Hokage
 due to being part of the
Hokage Guard Platoon
. Raidō uses this technique in conjunction with his teammates Genma and Iwashi.

Part I

Chūnin Exams

Main article:
Chūnin Exams

Raidō was present at the meeting where the
Third Hokage
 announced the news of
Hayate Gekkō
's death. After the Hokage explained about Kabuto, Orochimaru's spy, he suggested cancelling the exams, but was talked out of it by
Anko Mitarashi
,
Kakashi Hatake
, and the Hokage, due to
Orochimaru
's earlier warning.

During the final rounds of the Chūnin Exams, Raidō stayed in the box seat with the Third Hokage. He kept the Third informed about what was going on and communicated the Third's wishes to the other ninja involved with the exams. When the invasion of Konoha began, Raidō was attacked by the
Sound Four
, disguised as the
Fourth Kazekage
's bodyguards, to keep him from helping the Third Hokage. Despite being wounded and rendered unconscious by several kunai to his chest, he survived and made a full recovery.

Sasuke Recovery Mission

Main article:
Sasuke Recovery Mission






Raidō and Genma confront the Sound Four.



Some time later, Raidō was sent on a difficult mission with
Genma Shiranui
,
Iwashi Tatami
, and
Shizune
. During a break on their way back, Raidō and Genma went to check out suspicious movements that they had detected and encountered the Sound Four once again. In order to beat Raidō, the Sound Four had to activate the second level of their
cursed seals
, leaving Raidō gravely injured, and in need of medical attention. Shizune stabilised their conditions and she and Iwashi took them back to Konoha for further treatment. While recuperating in the
hospital
, they spoke to Tsunade telling her what had happened. They noted that the Sound Four were no longer using the arts of shinobi and that
genin
 could not be sent to confront them.

Part II

Akatsuki Suppression Mission

Main article:
Akatsuki Suppression Mission






Raidō and his team deploy.



Raidō appeared in Part II as a member of the
Nijū Shōtai
. In the anime, the team scoped out a known
Akatsuki
 bounty station where they accost an associate of the organisation. After stating that they would send him to
Ibiki Morino
 to be interrogated, they then launched a stake-out of the area.






Raidō attacking Kakuzu with his Kokutō.



After receiving a message from
Asuma Sarutobi
's group, Raidō and his group mobilised to provide back up to the team in their confrontation with
Hidan
 and
Kakuzu
, two Akatsuki members. When they are distracted by
Aoba
's crows, Raidō, dressed in black, attempted to sneak attack Kakuzu with his
Kokutō
 in the flurry of crows. Kakuzu was, however, able to defend against it by
hardening
 himself. Not did Raidō gain valuable knowledge about Kakuzu, but due to his interference,
Kotetsu
 and
Izumo
 were freed from Kakuzu's grasp. He later stands with Aoba as Asuma imparts his final words to his team before dying. He then covered Asuma's face with his cloak as it began to rain, and stated that his death befitted a true shinobi. He later attended Asuma's funeral with the rest of the villagers, mourning his death.

Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation

Main article:
Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation






Mei and her team confront Black Zetsu.



After the start of the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, the
Allied Shinobi Forces
 learned that
Akatsuki
's forces will be marching through the
Land of Frost
. Raidō was sent there to organise the evacuation of the
daimyō
 and the other citizens of the country. Afterwards, he is tasked with
guarding
 the daimyō in their safe house along with
Genma Shiranui
. While on duty, he and Raidō conversed about the daimyō and their argument over the naming of medals they would hand out after the war was over. Raidō wondered how they could be so carefree in such a time, finding their conversation about the medals too trivial. However, Genma told him not to make fun of them as it was their job and that without medals they wouldn't know what was honourable and what wasn't. Genma then told him that if he just stood around thinking of medals, he'd never get one, and to remain alert as they were going to relocate soon.

Fourth Shinobi World War: Climax

Main article:
Fourth Shinobi World War: Climax






Raidō prepares to transport Mei.



As
Black Zetsu
 located the daimyō, he was intercepted by
Mei Terumī
. Raidō alongside Genma,
Chōjūrō
 and the rest of her team arrived shortly after to back her up. After
Naruto
's
shadow clone
 arrived on the battlefield and crashed into a tree after being sidestepped by Black Zetsu, Raidō exclaimed that Naruto had not changed much and still rushed into battle without thinking. While battling Black Zetsu, he marvelled at Chōjūrō and his sword
Hiramekarei
. He, Genma and Iwashi later prepared to use the
Flying Thunder God Technique
 to transport Mei to the front-lines of the battlefield as per
Shikaku Nara
's orders. He informed Mei that while they could use the technique, they had to do so altogether and apologised for being so packed together. As soon as Tsunade, who is marked with the seal, was transported to the battlefield, they transported Mei to the front-lines. He later stood with his team-mates behind the Kage as they confronted
Madara Uchiha
.






The Hokage Guard Platoon and Dodai pursue Mū.



As Mei and
A
 engaged Madara in battle, Iwashi prematurely anticipated his defeat, Genma however, noted the extension of damage inflicted upon the surroundings by the enemy and warns his partner to stay focused while Raidō commented that there was no way to just force their way through.
Dodai
 then enlisted their help to go after the
Kabuto
-controlled
Mū
, who had begun to emerge from the debris. The four men then gave chase to him but their target is soon slapped away by A who was attacking Madara. As the battle between the Kage and Madara waged on, they continued to give chase to the evasive Mū.

With the
Impure World Reincarnation
 released, Raidō watched alongside his comrades as Mū was enveloped in a light of sorts before beginning to deconstruct.

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Main article:
Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

In the aftermath of the Fourth Shinobi World War, Raidō attends the mass funeral held in Konoha.

In Other Media

Video Games

Raidō Namiashi is a playable character in the following video games:

Game name
Japanese release
English release
Naruto Mobile
2016
2016
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Blazing
14 July 2016
24 August 2016

Trivia

"Namiashi" (
並足
) means "walking pace", while "Raidō" (
雷同
) means "following blindly".

According to the databook(s):

His favourite phrase is "Time is money" (
時は金なり
,
Toki wa kane nari
).

In the
fourth databook
, his age is mistakenly given as 35, although his 36th birthday is covered by the databook.

Studio Pierrot's Settei sheets of Raido show that he was 146 cm around the time of the Kannabi Bridge incident.

In chapters
327
 and
328
, Raidō's hair is dark-coloured instead of light-coloured.

References