The
Rasengan
 is a jutsu that takes form as a spinning ball of
chakra
, invented by
Minato Namikaze
.

Overview

Minato came up with the idea for this technique after seeing a
Tailed Beast Ball
 being used.
 Because his lover,
Kushina Uzumaki
, was a
jinchūriki
, she would inevitably be deployed to fight opponents who would use Tailed Beast Balls against her. Minato therefore wanted to develop a technique that Kushina could use to match against those opponents, which also worked with her chakra volume as a jinchūriki. Minato struggled with the original concepts for the technique, as they were either too weak or too unstable for use. It was only from a conversation with
Jiraiya
 that Minato thought of a way to make the technique usable. Because of Jiraiya's inspiration, Minato wanted to call the technique "Halo Frozen Dessert Hair Whorl Jiraiya Twin Formula Sphere" (
光輪冷菓発起旋毛自来也双式ノ丸
,
Kōrin Reika Hakki Tsumuji Jiraiya Sōshiki no Gan
), but both Jiraiya and Kushina felt it was too long and lame. Kushina suggested "Rasengan" instead, which Minato agreed was a better name.
 Minato would continue refining the Rasengan, ultimately taking three years of development time to perfect it.

The Rasengan is an application of
shape transformation
, where chakra emitted from the palm is rotated in multiple directions simultaneously to contain it within a sphere.
 No
hand seals
 are involved, in theory making it easy to learn and use,
 nor does it require additional chakra to maintain once it's properly formed.
[
citation needed
]
 The Rasengan grinds into whatever it comes into contact with, doing extensive damage until the spinning chakra dissipates;
 Jiraiya describes it as more powerful than the
Chidori
,
 an assessment that
Sasuke Uchiha
 agrees with after comparing the two.
 If users thrust the Rasengan into targets, they can be propelled away from the user until they eventually collide with some obstacle.
 The Rasengan's various attributes have earned it recognition as the pinnacle of shape transformation.





Naruto using a water balloon for the first step.



The Rasengan is in principle a simple application of shape transformation, but manipulating the motion of chakra in so many directions at once makes it extremely difficult to learn in practice. Additionally, as the technique is simply a mass of chakra, the technique is primarily suited for users with very high reserves of chakra. For this reason, Jiraiya breaks up the process into three steps when he teaches it to
Naruto Uzumaki
.
 Naruto subsequently uses these same three steps when he teaches it to
Konohamaru Sarutobi
,
 who in turn later uses them when he teaches it to
Boruto Uzumaki
:

Rotation
 - the user learns to spin their chakra in multiple directions at the same time. Users may be given a water balloon while they practice, to help them mark their progress by the churning water. The step is completed when users are able to burst the water balloon with their chakra.
 In theory this should be done with one hand, but Naruto initially uses chakra from both of his hands to increase the agitation, thus saving time.
 It can be useful to know in which direction one's chakra naturally spins, in order to avoid impeding oneself, as otherwise the chakra flow will divide and cause resistance; identifying the natural rotation direction of the user/practitioner can often be determined by the cowlick on their head.

Power
 - the user increases the volume and density of chakra they output. To help in this regard, users may be given a rubber ball: there is no water inside to help them burst the exterior and the rubber shell is thicker than a balloon's. It's important that users are able to actually destroy the rubber ball, not merely rupture it,
 as only by destroying the ball will users know that their chakra is sufficiently concentrated. This step can be painful for users, as they may not be accustomed to emitting so much chakra from their hands at once,
 and in fact they may end up injuring themselves in the process of destroying the ball.

Containment
 - the user must combine the first two steps into a contained sphere. To help in this regard, users may be given a balloon to help them visualise the intended shape; if the balloon is popped or otherwise moves, mastery is not yet achieved. This is by far the most difficult of the three steps because of how refined the user's chakra control must be.
 Naruto and Konohamaru end up using
shadow clones
 as a shortcut, using the clones' additional attention and hands to help contain and shape the chakra.
 Both do eventually learn to perform the Rasengan without the need for shadow clones, Naruto during the
Fourth Shinobi World War
,
 Konohamaru by the time he begins leading
Team 7
.

Once learned, the Rasengan appears largely identical from one user to the next. The only potential difference is its size: when Boruto first learns to use the Rasengan, it's noted to be quite small. With greater proficiency, the size of a user's Rasengan grows to be about the size of their hand.

Improvement






Multiple, bigger Rasengan.



Because of how useful the Rasengan is once it's been learned, many users end up inventing variants or additional applications based upon it. Creating larger versions of the Rasengan is one of the more straightforward methods, as seen with its
Big
,
Ultra-Big
, and
Super-Ultra-Big
 versions. Another option is to increase the number of Rasengan that the user creates: most users are limited to
two
 (one in each hand), but Naruto also develops a practice of having his shadow clones perform their own Rasengan, giving him
dozens
 of Rasengan to attack with simultaneously. In the anime, Boruto devises a way of
compressing
 the Rasengan, thus increasing its penetrative strength.

The Rasengan, being a simple though extremely advanced application of Shape Transformation, lends itself to being combined with nature transformations. In fact Minato created the Rasengan with the intention of combining it with his own
nature
, a task that proved too difficult for him to complete prior to his death.
Kakashi Hatake
 also failed to combine the Rasengan with his own
lightning
-nature, prompting him to invent the Chidori instead.
 Naruto encounters similar struggles to combine the Rasengan with his
wind
-nature, which he describes as needing to look left and right at the same time.
 He is eventually able to overcome this obstacle by using a second shadow clone to provide the nature transformation while he and another shadow clone form the Rasengan.
 This ultimately leads to the creation of the
Wind Release: Rasenshuriken
, which is most notable for its ability to be thrown.
 Years later, Boruto unknowingly adds his own lightning-nature to his Rasengan, which causes it to turn
invisible
 if thrown, potentially lowering an opponent's guard before it strikes them.

Senjutsu Influence






Naruto using Sage Technique: Rasengan.



When in
Sage Mode
, the user can use a
senjutsu
-enhanced version known as
Sage Technique: Rasengan
 (
仙術・螺旋丸
,
Senjutsu: Rasengan
,
English TV:
 Sage Art: Rasengan,
literally meaning:
 Sage Technique: Spiralling Sphere).
 It is fundamentally the same as the normal version, but the addition of natural energy into the mix the users chakra makes it notably stronger. For Naruto, it is while using Sage Mode that he is first able to throw the Wind Release: Rasenshuriken,
 which previously would sporadically lose its shape if he didn't hold on to it.

Tailed Beast Influence






Naruto in his one-tailed form, preparing the Rasengan.



Naruto, as a
jinchūriki
, can use the
Nine-Tails
' chakra to assist in using the Rasengan. While using a
version 1
 cloak in Part I, he makes a Rasengan without the aid of a shadow clone, using the cloak itself to contain it.
 Due to the Nine-Tails' influence, this Rasengan is darker in colour and much stronger. Different video games have called it "Demon Fox Rasengan" (
妖狐螺旋丸
,
Yōko Rasengan
,
literally meaning:
 Demon Fox Spiralling Sphere), "Vermilion Rasengan" (
朱い螺旋丸
,
Shui Rasengan
,
literally meaning:
 Vermilion Spiralling Sphere), "Nine-Tails Rasengan" (
九尾螺旋丸
,
Kyūbi Rasengan
,
literally meaning:
 Nine-Tails Spiralling Sphere), and "Crimson/Blazing Rasengan" (
紅蓮螺旋丸
,
Guren Rasengan
,
literally meaning:
 Crimson Spiralling Sphere). After learning to use the
Nine-Tails Chakra Mode
 in Part II, Naruto uses
chakra arms
 in place of a shadow clone to help him create the Rasengan.
 Because he can manifest multiple chakra arms at once, this in turn means he can use multiple Rasengan simultaneously, such as for the
Spiralling Strife Spheres
.

The Nine-Tails is uncooperative when Naruto first starts using the Nine-Tails Chakra Mode, preventing him from using the
Tailed Beast Ball
. He tries to create an alternative in the
Tailed Beast Rasengan
, but he's unable to do so. The Nine-Tails does eventually agree to work with him, allowing him to use Tailed Beast Ball and thus making the Tailed Beast Rasengan unnecessary. Naruto is later given access to the other
tailed beasts
' chakra, whose natures he can apply to the Rasengan and its variants, such as the
Sage Art: Magnet Release Rasengan
.

Trivia






The Rasengan's colour in
Naruto: Colour Edition
.



The colouring of the standard Rasengan varies throughout the manga. For example, it's yellow on the cover of
volume 52
, blue on the cover of
volume 67
, and orange on the cover of
Weekly Shōnen Jump
 #35 (2005).

The anime is more consistent about depicting the Rasengan as blue, with the exception of
The Last: Naruto the Movie
, which depicts it as orange.

While Minato intended to pass this technique on to Kushina,
 it is unknown if he succeeded.

In the anime, if used underwater, the rotation force of the Rasengan is capable of creating a whirlpool.

The anime shows Naruto being able to throw the Rasengan,
 something that is later established to require special training.

Katasuke
 uses this technique through his
Shinobi Gauntlet
.

In
Naruto: Ultimate Ninja 3
, Jiraiya spews
fire
 onto his Rasengan, creating the
Fire Release: Great Flame Rasengan
.

Jump Super Stars
 is one of the few video games where Part I Naruto is able to access his non-clone-refined version of his Rasengan, dubbed as "Rasengan: In Training" (
螺旋丸・修行中
,
Rasengan: Shugyōchū
,
literally meaning:
 Spiralling Sphere: In Training).

Likewise also in both the
first 2

Uzumaki Chronicles
 games, Naruto can perform a version of the Rasengan without a clone enhancing it (holding down the input in the second game does involve the clone and turns it into a "True Rasengan/Spiralling Sphere" with merely an increased damage multiplier and hitbox duration).

The video game
Battle Stadium D.O.N.
 also curiously does not have a clone assist Naruto in the formation of the technique.

The Rasengan's appearance resembles
Kūatsuken
, a technique from the
Ninku
 series.

See Also

Amenomihashira

References