The
Regeneration Ability
 is a power lying inside the cells of
Hashirama Senju
, which is able to heal the injuries of anyone imbued with them in mere moments.

Acquisition

Since the healing power is an inherent component of Hashirama's cells, someone who obtains the cells also obtains their healing factor.
 This can be done by simply implementing the cells into one's own body, or by taking over the body of a
White Zetsu
. Because of their origin, their DNA is very similar to Hashirama's, as revealed by
Shizune
 and
Sakura Haruno
's autopsy results.

Usage

This ability has the advantage of healing most damage that the user sustains without the need for
hand seals
. In this regard,
Madara Uchiha
 compares it to
Tsunade
's
Ninja Art Creation Rebirth — Strength of a Hundred Technique
.
 The enhanced regeneration granted by the cells is so rapid that even dozens of puncture wounds, on top of various injuries inflicted by the combined physical assault of all nine
tailed beasts
 were completely healed in mere moments. This ability does not appear to extend to severed limbs as Madara instead replaced his severed arm with that of a White Zetsu clone's.

Improvement

After becoming the
Ten-Tails
'
jinchūriki
, Madara claimed that it was impossible for him to be defeated as he gained
a form of "immortality"
 from how far his regeneration's ability had ascended,
 as he regenerated the half of his torso blown away by
Night Guy
 and regenerated even after
Sasuke Uchiha
 fully
bisected
 him at the waist.

Trivia

Despite the Regeneration Ability being similar to a
kekkei genkai
, it was never said to be one.

With the genetic tissue transplanted into Madara and the artificial limbs for Obito each comprised of Hashirama's DNA, they both not only gained Hashirama's healing abilities, but also they no longer required any food or water to survive.
 However, it is unknown if these two traits are related or if Hashirama himself was also endowed with the latter.

Though
Jūgo
 was in possession of Hashirama's cells at one point, he automatically converted them into his own before having a chance to use this ability.

Those who possess a fragment of the
Stone of Gelel
 inside their bodies will gain regenerative powers comparable to this ability.

In the anime,
Mugino
 states to be able to use
Wood Release
 a person must have the First
Hokage
's cells, which suggests that the Wood Release user
Moegi Kazamatsuri
 has access to this ability.

In the anime, rumors have spread that the Regeneration Ability also will restore one's youth and extend their longevity. Konoha-nin however have denied such claims.

See Also

Body Revival Technique

Ultra-Fast Regeneration Technique

Yin Healing Wound Destruction

References