This article is about the episode. For the chapter, see
Regeneration
.

"
Regeneration
" (
再生
,
Saisei
) is episode 207 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Team 7
 is shocked by
Boro
's
regeneration
. Boro boasts of having body surpassing that of humans, that
shinobi
 can't hope to defeat. He is puzzled by
Boruto
's comment of antibody use against his
virus
, and realises that
Mitsuki
 harvested them from the blood he took when his snake bit him. Mitsuki explains his line of reasoning. Boruto taunts him about his virus no longer working, and
Sarada
 warns Boruto not to let his guard down. They get into formation for a pincer attack. Boro notices
Kawaki
's attention to
Naruto
's seal, so he rushes at it, breaking their formation. He moves past the seal, releasing more viruses, and aiming
shuriken
 at Kawaki. Kawaki blocks the shuriken with his
transformed arm
, but the sparks ignite a flammable substance mixed with the virus. He still checks the kettle containing Naruto, Boro commenting negatively how Kawaki has changed. Boruto chastises Kawaki for his recklessness, but Kawaki is unconcerned, as he can quickly heal from those injuries. Boro thinks Kawaki will have to be trained from scratch, and says he'll take Boruto as well for his
Kāma
.
 Boruto and Mitsuki charge, Kawaki holds Sarada back to ask her a favour. Boruto's
Rasengan
 destroys Boro's hand, which regenerates in time for a counterattack. Sarada understands Kawaki's request, but can't abandon her team-mates. She reasons that with the flammable substance,
Fire Release
 and
Lightning Release
 are no longer options for her. She attacks with shuriken, but Boro melts them with his
Lava Release
. Mitsuki
elongates his arm
, and holds Boro in place for Kawaki to blast him. Boro's lower half is destroyed, but he still regenerates. They wonder how to deal with it. Kawaki asks Boruto and Mitsuki to attack relentlessly with him, Boruto knowing he has a plan. They charge ahead, while Kawaki reminds Sarada they're counting on her. Sarada recalls Kawaki's earlier explanation about the limits of Boro's
scientific ninja tools
, and the requirement of a core for regeneration of the degree Boro has exhibited. Sarada observes Boro with her
Sharingan
, looking for clues where his core might be. Mitsuki
immobilises
 Boro with snakes, but he releases more flammable substance and ignites it. Sarada wonders how can there still be a sizeable core considering all the body parts they've already destroyed. Boro sends a burst of flammable substance at Mitsuki when he attacks him with
Lightning Release
. He heaves seals just before Kawaki's blast destroys his head, and Sarada notices something move inside him. She notices it moving again when Boruto next lands a Rasengan. Boro recalls
Koji
's intel, and intends to capture Boruto as well as Kawaki. Sarada knows where Boro's core is, but can't inform the others without also alerting Boro. She goes through her jutsu, and determines only one is fast enough to strike before Boro has a chance to more the core again. Kawaki absorbs a Fire Release from Boro aimed at Mitsuki, and fires back a blast of his own, which Boro dodges. Boro's next attack hits both of them. Sarada is concerned that reading Boro's movements wrong will leave her open, and that she has never used it in battle before, but begins using the
Chidori
. Boruto notices Sarada, and uses
smoke bombs
 for a ruse with the
Vanishing Rasengan
, destroying Boro's arm. Sarada's Chidori hits where she wants. Mitsuki explains to Chidori to Kawaki. Sarada destroys Boro's core. Boro's scientific ninja tools go haywire, and swells up, going on a rampage. As Boro can't fight anymore, they move to rescue Naruto. Kawaki suggests Boruto that they use their Kāma to
gate
 the space inside the seal with where they are, similar to how they arrived at
that dimension
. They're able to release Naruto from the seal. They're concern by Naruto being unconscious, but Kawaki points out his prosthetic hand still works, so Naruto should be ok. Mitsuki is knocked out by Boro's newly grown giant tentacles. They try to counterattack, but Boro's size makes his attacks too powerful, knocking out Kawaki and incapacitating Sarada. He begins punching down at Boruto. Boruto is suddenly no longer on the ground, but floating in the air, possessed by
Momoshiki
 and speaking with his voice, calling Boro an inferior creature.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Kawaki
Yuma Uchida
内田 雄馬
Uchida Yūma
Boro
Kenta Miyake
三宅 健太
Miyake Kenta
Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki
Daisuke Namikawa
浪川 大輔
Namikawa Daisuke