Orochimaru regenerating his arm.



Regeneration Techniques
 (
再生術
,
Saiseijutsu
) are
ninjutsu
 that allows the user to heal their bodies from damage incurred. Depending on the strength of the techniques, some may be even powerful enough to purge the body of
poison
.
 Some regeneration techniques may be an application of
medical ninjutsu
 onto the user's own bodies, while others may be gathering a huge amount of chakra to repair the body.

A potential drawback to regeneration techniques is that the body's cells are limited to how many times they can divide themselves in one's lifetime, and by accelerating that division to recreate lost limbs and organs, one is basically shortening their lifespan.
 Certain techniques of extreme destructive power, such as the
True Fire of Samadhi
 and
Destruction Beam
 are capable of overwhelming regeneration techniques.

Some regeneration techniques can be used to extend one's lifespan,
 but this cannot be indefinite, as it would eventually reach a limit, and the body would succumb to senescence.

The cells of
Hashirama Senju
 possess an immense
Regeneration Ability
 that requires no hand seals.
 Once
Madara Uchiha
 acquired this power, along with becoming the
Jinchūriki
 of the
Ten-Tails
, he elevated this regenerative power to the point of
a form of "immortality"
,
 able to survive even from bisection at his waist.

Trivia

The
Creation Rebirth
 was considered to be the "ultimate regeneration technique".

Victor
 was known for his skills in regeneration techniques,
 though in the anime, Orochimaru noted it was imperfect as he could not restore the leg and eye he lost years prior.
 Furthermore, having utilised a
cursed seal
 to extend his own life, the prolonged usage of regeneration had accelerated his health decline, the reason he permanently lost his leg and eye.

Tailed beasts
 also have powerful healing capacities, able to mend injuries in themselves and others in seconds.
 However, overusing this ability for a
Jinchūriki
 will, in the long run, have dire consequences, as continuous recreation of cells is effectively shortening their lifespan.

Shinnō
 was noted to have invented many regeneration techniques, and having taught
Orochimaru
 several of them. It was for this reason that Orochimaru desired to capture Shinnō, in hopes of extending
his host's
 vitality.

In the anime,
Mitsuki
 seems to possess a degree of regeneration. After losing an arm, he stated it would heal and will be fine.
 In the following episode, he has a new arm.

See Also

List of regeneration techniques

References