This article is about the Boruto episode.  For other uses, see
Resonance
.

"
Resonance
" (
共鳴
,
Kyōmei
) is episode 189 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

As
Kawaki
 and
Garō
 begin fighting,
Boruto
's
Kāma
 glows.
Koji
 and
Delta
 decide not to interfere for the moment. Garō and Kawaki exchange physical blows, before Garō begins shooting at him with his mechanical arms. Kawaki blocks the first shot with a manifested blade and dodges the others. He attacks with the manifested bits of weaponry from his body. They continue dealing blows, none of them doing lasting damage. The
Konoha
 shinobi watch in awe. When one of Garō's attacks knocks Kawaki down, Boruto tries to intervene, but
Konohamaru
 stops him, and protects him from Garō's counterattack. Kawaki's Kāma activates, and Boruto's reacts to it, activating as well. Kawaki wakes up, and destroy's one of Garō's arms with a blast from his Kāma. Garō is stunned by Kawaki's increase in power and shoots at him. Kawaki absorbs it, which
Mitsuki
 notes is exactly what Boruto did earlier.
 Garō continues shooting, either missing or his shots being absorbed until his
Shinobi-Ware
 overheats. Kawaki powers up his next attack with the Kāma, and punches through Garō, his manifested weaponry piercing through him. Despite Garō's pleas, Kawaki blasts him at point blank. The explosion destroy's Garō's upper body. Delta is pleased that Kawaki also blasted the Konoha shinobi, but Koji tells her to take a closer look. Boruto protected the others by using his own Kāma to absorb part of the explosion. Kawaki takes Boruto's command of his Kāma as proof they're part of
Kara
. Koji speculates that the resonance between the two Kāma might be why
Jigen
 is so invested in Kawaki and decides to gather more intel. Delta watches him. Kawaki's body steams, his Kāma recedes, and he passes out.
Katasuke
 believes he overheated, and approaches to examine him. Koji intends to let them take Kawaki for now, but Delta believes that they should eliminate them because of what Garō told them. Koji says there's no point in concerning themselves with intel leak after the discovery of the airship. The Inners leave. Katasuke determines Kawaki's entire body has been modified with
scientific ninja tools
, to a much greater than
Ao
 or Garō, and considers it to be a work of art. Mitsuki wonders if Kawaki was built like him, but Katasuke contrasts Mitsuki's organic, genetic engineering against Kawaki's inorganic remodelling.
Chamaru
 leaves Mitsuki's cloak and licks Kawaki. They decide to take him back to Konoha.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Konohamaru Sarutobi
Hidenori Takahashi
高橋 英則
Takahashi Hidenori
Katasuke Tōno
Taira Kikumoto
菊本 平
Kikumoto Taira
Kawaki
Yuma Uchida
内田 雄馬
Uchida Yūma
Garō
Hiroaki Tajiri
田尻 浩章
Tajiri Hiroaki
Koji Kashin
Yuichi Nakamura
中村 悠一
Nakamura Yūichi
Delta
Hoko Kuwashima
桑島 法子
Kuwashima Hōko