"
Reunion with Mitsuki
" (
再会、ミツキ…!!
,
Saikai, Mitsuki…!!
) is episode 79 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Kokuyō
 introduces himself to
Boruto
,
Sarada
, and
Shikadai
, who notice he defeated several shinobi. Despite the danger he poses, the genin want to defeat him to get to
Mitsuki
. Kokuyō and his
Akuta
 attack, surprising the genin with their speed. Boruto uses shadow clones to distract Kokuyō from Shikadai's jutsu, but he dodges it regardless. He uses his
tonfa
 as a ranged weapon to finish off Boruto's remaining clone. Sarada blocks the Akuta's attack on her, and Kokuyō claims his powers don't come from jutsu, which he can't use, but from pure strength. Boruto manages to dodge Kokuyō's attack, and uses
Wind Release
 to throw him in the air, Sarada throwing the Akuta at him. Kokuyō knocks the Akuta aside, which Shikadai pins down upon landing, allowing Boruto to destroy it with a
Rasengan
. Kokuyō attacks Sarada faster than she can react with her
Sharingan
, and uses his tonfa to cause a rockslide. Before Kokuyō can attack Sarada again,
Chōchō
 arrives and lands a hit on him, then tosses a large rock on top on him. Joined by
Inojin
, they explain they turned back when they found defeated Konoha shinobi.
 Shikadai tells Boruto and Sarada to go on ahead, while he, Chōchō, and Inojin deal with Kokuyō.
Sekiei
 notices Kokuyō is taking time to catch up, and simply states he's strong when Mitsuki asks if he trusts Kokuyō. A couple Akuta manifest from the ground and update Sekiei on the situation. Sekiei doesn't allow Mitsuki to stay with him, and has the Akuta guard him, while he goes to deal with Boruto and Sarada. The two narrowly avoid an explosive butterfly from Sekiei, who asks them how they got past Kokuyō. Sarada notices he kneads chakra into the clay to make it explode, and Sekiei explains that
Explosive Clay
 was the jutsu implanted on him. Boruto summons
Garaga
, much to Sekiei's excitement. Garaga doesn't attack, instead throwing Boruto off of him, refusing to help him. Kokuyō exhausts Chōchō, so Shikadai gives Inojin an opening to try sealing him. The genin retreat while Kokuyō breaks through the seal, and when considering they're weak, but wise, wonders if that is a human strength. Garaga laughs at Boruto as he struggles against Sekiei. When Boruto tells Sekiei he and Mitsuki are friends, he asks Boruto if that's something Boruto decided arbitrarily, Boruto confirms this, but decides that it is one more reason to reach Mitsuki, to really get to know him. Garaga tells Boruto that if he agrees to become his underling, he might help, but Boruto arrogantly blows him off. Sekiei attacks Boruto, but Garaga protects him. Angered that Boruto told him to leave, Garaga rampages and attacks Sekiei, who suddenly feels ill. Boruto uses the opportunity to strike, but his attack is blocked by Mitsuki. Mitsuki checks on Sekiei, and reiterates to Boruto and Sarada his decision to go with the
Iwagakure
 shinobi. Boruto offers Mitsuki his forehead protector back, but Mitsuki
attacks him
. Garaga scoffs at Boruto. Kokuyō, having seen everything, declares Mitsuki to be trustworthy. Deciding that Boruto isn't worth killing in his current state, he and Mitsuki leave with Sekiei. Boruto calls out to Mitsuki, but passes out.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Shikadai Nara
Kensho Ono
小野 賢章
Ono Kenshō
Inojin Yamanaka
Atsushi Abe
阿部 敦
Abe Atsushi
Chōchō Akimichi
Ryoko Shiraishi
白石 涼子
Shiraishi Ryōko
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Kokuyō
Masashi Tamaki
玉木 雅士
Tamaki Masashi
Sekiei
Takehiro Urao
浦尾 岳大
Urao Takehiro
Garaga
Masashi Nogawa
野川 雅史
Nogawa Masashi