"
Revolution
" (
革命
,
Kakumei
) is chapter 692 of the original
Naruto
 manga.

Summary

The previous
Hokage
 all bid farewell to those around them entrusting the shinobi world to those before them. As the
tailed beasts
 all decide what they would do next,
Hagoromo
 informs them that since a small part of each of their chakra is now inside
Naruto
, they can
communicate
 with each other, with him serving as a "meeting ground" of sorts, and asks
Kurama
 to watch over it. Hagoromo then asks both Naruto and
Sasuke
 if their answers to him have changed since their battle with his
mother
, Naruto explains that
his mother
 was truly a good person and comparing her to Kaguya, he felt as if she never had a heart to begin with.
 Hagoromo says that Kaguya was once beloved by the people, revered as a benevolent goddess, it was only until she ate the
God Tree
's
Chakra Fruit
 she had changed, but he reassures Naruto, despite having all the tailed beasts' chakra inside of him, he would not turn out the same way she did. Moving to the next topic at hand, Hagoromo says that now is the time to end the
Infinite Tsukuyomi
, he explains that by combining Naruto's tailed beast chakra and Sasuke's
Rinnegan
, they can end the
genjutsu
. But just before they do, Sasuke proclaims that he would kill the five Kage before they release it, surprising the entire group. Before
Kakashi
 could question him further, Sasuke immediately places all of the tailed beasts under his control, freezing them in place. As Hagoromo explains that he is disappearing soon, Naruto tells him that they both are not like
their

ancestors
 and won't turn out like them, either. Sasuke soon explains that he plans to dismantle and reform the shinobi world by bringing about a revolution. After this, he uses
Chibaku Tensei
 to imprison each of the tailed beasts. As soon as watching over this, Naruto ensures Kurama that he will get them out, then jumps in front of Sasuke and states that the two brothers' long-lasting feud would finally end.

Trivia

When Sasuke takes control of the nine tailed beasts, not every tailed beasts' sclera is covered with a Rinnegan pattern, though the irides still take on the design of Sasuke's Rinnegan.