The
Rinnegan
 (
輪廻眼
,
literally meaning:
 Saṃsāra Eye) is reputed as the most exalted eye amongst the "Three Great
Dōjutsu
",
 the others being the
Sharingan
 and the
Byakugan
. It is said that in times of disorder, one who wields the Rinnegan is sent down from the heavens to become either a "God of Creation" who will calm the world or a "God of Destruction" who will reduce everything to nothingness. The Rinnegan is characterised by concentric circles covering the eyeball.

Acquisition

The first person on
Earth
 to wield the Rinnegan was
Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki
, whose
mother
 possessed the
Rinne Sharingan
. In the anime, he obtained his Rinnegan at the same time as his
Mangekyō Sharingan
, which awakened as a result of mortally wounding his
brother
.
 Using the power of the Rinnegan, Hagoromo saved the world from the
Ten-Tails
 and created
ninshū
, the precursor to modern
ninjutsu
. For his contributions to the world, Hagoromo became revered as the Sage of Six Paths, and both he and his eyes rose to mythological status following his death;
 even when the Rinnegan was later proven to exist, some dismissed it as a random mutation.

It is possible for a
Sharingan
 wielder to awaken a new Rinnegan by obtaining
Hagoromo's chakra
, either by combining the
chakra
 of his sons,
Indra
 and
Asura
, to recreate his own,
 or by directly receiving it from Hagoromo himself.

Black Zetsu
 spent centuries attempting to manipulate the
reincarnations
 of Indra and Asura into awakening the Rinnegan, but it was not until the time of
Madara Uchiha
 — Indra's reincarnate — that this was successful.
 Madara implanted the flesh of
Hashirama Senju
 — Asura's reincarnate — into his own body, causing a part of Asura's chakra to combine with Indra's.
 However, Madara's eyes did not become Rinnegan until decades later, when his natural lifespan was nearing its end;
 this also restored his right eye's vision, which had been lost from his earlier use of
Izanagi
.

Orochimaru
 and
Kabuto Yakushi
 later hypothesised that the Sharingan can be evolved into the Rinnegan by combining
Uchiha
 and
Senju
 DNA. To that end, Kabuto successfully recreated the Rinnegan by infusing Hashirama's cells into Madara's
reincarnated
 body,
 though these fake eyes did not have full access to the original's abilities.






Sasuke's purple tomoe Rinnegan.



After receiving half of Hagoromo's chakra from his spirit, Sasuke awakened a Rinnegan in his left eye, which contains three
tomoe
 on its two innermost circles for a total of six. In addition to the Rinnegan's power, this eye retains the abilities of Sasuke's left Mangekyō Sharingan, including the ability to cast
ocular genjutsu
 and use
Amaterasu
.
 If Sasuke overuses the power of his Rinnegan, his ocular power will temporarily diminish, causing the tomoe in his Rinnegan to vanish until his full power returns. During this time, he is also seemingly unable to activate his right eye's Mangekyō Sharingan or use
Susanoo
.






Momoshiki's red Rinnegan.



Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki
 had a pair of Rinnegan embedded in the palms of his hands. They were initially red, but after he
consumed
 his guardian,
Kinshiki
, they became purple (in
Boruto: Naruto the Movie
) or golden yellow (in
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
). This also granted him a third Rinnegan on his forehead, which matched the other two in colour.
 In the anime, Momoshiki's yellow Rinnegan temporarily turned red when he used their
power
.

After
Code
 used
Claw Marks
 on a
Ten-Tails
 to create
Claw Grimes
, at least one of them manifested a single Rinnegan. Upon its manifestation, the Fission being gave off the presence of levelling up, and was accompanied with an increase of strength.
 Later, the same Ten-Tails completely separated into several sentient
God Trees
, with each one possessing a pair of purple Rinnegan. If a God Tree had their body destroyed and transformed into a Thorn Soul Bulb, their Rinnegan are regenerated alongside their entire body using roots of a specific tree.






Urashiki's blue Rinnegan



In the anime,
Urashiki Ōtsutsuki
 manifested his Rinnegan in the same pair of eyes as his Byakugan, and could switch between the two dōjutsu at will. Urashiki's Rinnegan were able to take on several forms to access different abilities: at times, they were red and contained six tomoe,
 while at other times, they were blue with a white ripple pattern while using certain techniques.
 After consuming all of the chakra he had stolen from others, Urashiki removed and devoured both of his Rinnegan, causing him to undergo a transformation. In this form, his eyes were restored, an additional Rinnegan appeared on his forehead, and all of his dōjutsu turned yellow, much like Momoshiki before him.

As with any dōjutsu, the Rinnegan can be transplanted into others. Prior to his death, Madara implanted both of his eyes into the young
Nagato
 without the boy's knowledge, and he was able to make effective use of them throughout his life due to his
Senju lineage
.
 After Nagato's death, the Rinnegan were taken by
Obito Uchiha
,
 who implanted the left eye into himself and hid the other, knowing he could not handle the power of both eyes at once.
 Madara later reclaimed both of his Rinnegan after he was
revived
,
 and they were last seen deactivated upon his death.
 He was also able to revert his Rinnegan to his Eternal Mangekyō Sharingan, though only seen when
reanimated
.
 Sasuke has noted that his Rinnegan would remain active after his death, and that it could be transplanted into and be usable by
Kakashi Hatake
.

Abilities

The Rinnegan contains extraordinarily powerful
chakra
 and boasts enormous ocular power, such that an unworthy wielder risks "losing themselves" upon implanting one. Their full power can only be brought out by their original owner, particularly when wielding both eyes, but possession of even a single transplanted Rinnegan can still grant overwhelming power.
 It is able to see chakra and its flow within the body,
 as well as otherwise invisible
barriers
,
 but cannot see through obstructions such as
smoke bombs
.
 Possession of the Rinnegan allows one to easily master any
jutsu
 as well as all five basic
nature transformations
.
 The Rinnegan is the only
dōjutsu
 able to fully decipher the Sage of Six Paths'
stone tablet
.






Nagato using the Six Paths Technique.



One who wields the Rinnegan can utilise six abilities collectively known as the
Six Paths Technique
: controlling
attractive
 and
repulsive
 forces with the
Deva Path
; mechanically altering one's body with the
Asura Path
; extracting
souls
 through the
Human Path
;
summoning
 various creatures through the
Animal Path
;
absorbing chakra
 through the
Preta Path
; and access to the
King of Hell
 through the
Naraka Path
. A seventh ability, called the
Outer Path
, is said to allow the user to preside over life and death, granting them the ability to
revive the dead
.
 The Outer Path also allows the user to transmit their chakra into
black receivers
,
 manifest
chakra chains
 to bind the
tailed beasts
,
 and create the
Six Paths of Pain
: six bodies controlled through the use of black receivers, which can each utilise one aspect of the Six Paths Technique. The Rinnegan grants the user a shared field of vision with their Six Paths of Pain, the creatures summoned through the Animal Path, and the King of Hell, all of which possess copies of the Rinnegan in their own eyes.






The Demonic Statue summoned by the Rinnegan.



The Rinnegan is the only means of breaking the
seal
 placed on the
Demonic Statue of the Outer Path
 and
summoning
 it,
 though it cannot be summoned using a fake reincarnated Rinnegan.
 The dōjutsu is also used to
seal
 the Ten-Tails inside one's body and become its
jinchūriki
.
 When one who wields the power of Rinne approaches the
moon
, they can awaken the Rinne Sharingan and cast the
Infinite Tsukuyomi
.
 In turn, another Rinnegan wielder is able to repel the Infinite Tsukuyomi's light, and this protection can be extended to others by using the Rinnegan in conjunction with Susanoo.
 In order to end the technique entirely, a Rinnegan wielder must form the rat
hand seal
 together with someone who possesses the chakra of all nine tailed beasts.

Certain Rinnegan abilities have only been demonstrated by single users:

Sasuke Uchiha
's Rinnegan allows him to use
Amenotejikara
 to swap places with a person or object within a certain range of himself,
 as well as create
portals
 to other dimensions. It also has several sciences to it, and one of them is pattern recognition. It helps him analyse patterns inside codes, and by comparing them to similar patterns, decipher what is written. When put into use, he can take large amounts of information from a small amount of text.

Madara Uchiha
 can create corporeal shadows in the world of
Limbo
, which are invisible to the those lacking the Rinnegan.
 These shadows can also be sensed with
Six Paths Senjutsu
 and can only be physically interacted with by using
Six Paths Chakra
.

Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki
 is able to absorb any ninjutsu with his right Rinnegan and subsequently release it in an
amplified form
 from his left Rinnegan, as well as
transform
 chakra and living individuals into edibles.

Urashiki Ōtsutsuki
 has two different Rinnegan with their own special abilities. With his red tomoe Rinnegan, he could use
Yomotsu Hirasaka
 to travel through dimensions. With his blue Rinnegan, he could use the
Origami Replacement Technique
 to displace himself by disappearing and leaving behind multiple red chakra
orizuru
, leaving his chakra signature untraceable. He could also transport himself into the past to
redo events
.

Jura
, as an incarnation of the
Ten-Tails
 and a sentient
God Tree
, can fire a
Tailed Beast Ball
 from his Rinnegan.

Forms

The general appearance of the Rinnegan.
Sasuke
's Rinnegan.
Momoshiki
's red Rinnegan.
Momoshiki and
Urashiki
's
(anime only)
 yellow Rinnegan after transforming.
Urashiki's
(anime only)
 and
Kara's Ten-Tails
' red tomoe Rinnegan.
Urashiki's blue Rinnegan.
(anime only)

Trivia






The anime's first rendition of the Rinnegan.



Rinne
 (
輪廻
,
literally meaning:
 Wheel Cycle) is the Japanese term for
Saṃsāra
, the cycle of reincarnation or rebirth in several Indian religions. This is reflected in the abilities of the Six Paths Technique, which share their names with the six Saṃsāric
realms of reincarnation
.

The kanji "Rin" (
輪
,
literally meaning:
 Wheel) is also used in Sharingan and Rinne Sharingan, potentially linking the three terms etymologically.

When it first appeared in the anime, the Rinnegan was depicted as multicoloured. Its appearance was corrected after the Rinnegan was shown in colour in the manga. However, whereas the Rinnegan in the manga is a uniform shade of purple,
 the anime tends to make the centre-most ring a slightly darker shade of purple.

In
chapter 254
, when
Deidara
 and
Sasori
 brought
Gaara
 to the
Akatsuki
 hideout, Pain was depicted with three tomoe in his Rinnegan in a single panel. This was
corrected
 in the tankōbon release of
volume 29
.

In the digital versions of chapters
676
 and
678
 colourised by Shueisha's production team, Sasuke's Rinnegan was coloured red, but later illustrations coloured by
Masashi Kishimoto
 revealed it to be purple. The colour was corrected in subsequent digitally colourised chapters, as well as in
Naruto: Colour Edition
. Similarly, in
episode 203
 and the
sixteenth opening
 of
Naruto: Shippūden
, Hagoromo's and Madara's Rinnegan are depicted as red.

Though usually depicted with six, Sasuke's Rinnegan has also been depicted with three
 and nine tomoe.

Though usually depicted as red, Momoshiki's Rinnegan were shown with the standard purple colour in a
poster
 for
Boruto: Naruto the Movie
 drawn by Masashi Kishimoto, as well as on the cover of
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations

volume 2
; elsewhere in the manga, they are coloured red.

When the Infinite Tsukuyomi is cast, reflections of the Rinnegan appear in the eyes of those caught in its light.
 Upon first seeing the technique, Sasuke referred to the Infinite Tsukuyomi as a
genjutsu
 cast by the Rinnegan.
 In the anime, Black Zetsu also connects the technique to the Rinnegan.

In the
fourth databook
, Hagoromo is only classified as a
kekkei mōra
 user, suggesting his Rinnegan may not be a
kekkei genkai
.

In the anime, within the
Jiraiya Ninja Scrolls
 novel, the Rinnegan has the ability to see through solid objects.

In
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 4
 and
Naruto: Shinobi Collection Shippū Ranbu
, Sasuke's Rinnegan is erroneously referred to as a Rinne Sharingan.

References