This article is about the Boruto chapter.  For other uses, see
Sacrifice
.

"
Sacrifice
" (
生贄
,
Ikenie
) is chapter 51 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 manga.

Summary

Isshiki
 asks why
Boruto
 thinks he can't kill him. Boruto thinks he's being obvious.
Sasuke
 asks for an explanation. Boruto tells Sasuke what he learned about their plan from when he fought
Boro
. Sasuke links it to what
Amado
 revealed about Isshiki's intentions, and Boruto concludes he's part of it, so Isshiki can't afford to kill him. In
Konoha
, Amado continues explaining Isshiki's plan, and reveals that for a
Ten-Tails
 seedling to take root and grow into a
God Tree
, a living
Ōtsutsuki
 must be fed to it. Isshiki muses on Boro having been defeated. Sasuke reveals they know of his plans, but Isshiki is indifferent, as he doesn't think they have the power to stop him even if they have the knowledge. As Isshiki approaches, Boruto threatens to kill himself with a kunai to stop his plan. Amado explains the reason Ōtsutsuki invade in pairs is so that one becomes a sacrifice for a God Tree, and the other one watches over it until it bears a chakra fruit.
Katasuke
 questions how desirable the chakra fruit must be for the Ōtsutsuki to be willing to sacrifice themselves for it, but
Kawaki
 reminds him that they have
Kāma
, Amado adding that the sacrificial Ōtsutsuki generally prepares a vessel for resurrection ahead of time.
Sumire
 asks if this was Isshiki's and Kaguya's plan. Amado believes so on Isshiki's part, with
Kaguya
 being the sacrifice as she was of a lower position in the clan, but she turned against him, so Isshiki would have had to carry on solo, sacrificing himself as he had no other Ōtsutsuki.
 Sumire realises Isshiki means to sacrifice Boruto. Amado praises her deduction skills. Isshiki is unimpressed by Boruto's threat, and
shrinks
 out of sight. He shrinks Boruto's kunai, and Sasuke tells him to run so they can buy enough time to run out how long Isshiki has left with
Jigen
's body. Isshiki reappears and attacks Sasuke, causing Boruto to retaliate. Isshiki shrinks Boruto's
Rasengan
 and breaks his arm, being ok with hurting him even if he doesn't intend to kill him. He kicks Boruto aside and since he said he's ready to die, Isshiki explains he'll be fed to the Ten-Tails as he pins him to the ground. Amado explains that there exist variations in chakra fruits, and a powerful Ōtsutsuki created from a younger vessel will provide better sustenance to a God Tree than one from a spent vessel like Jigen, which will lead to a better chakra fruit.
Shikamaru
 wonders how that helps Boruto in defeating Isshiki. Kawaki angrily asks how much of the situation Amado has plotted, noting his calm disposition. Amado merely states that he makes the best choice available to him, and that it's important to be prepared to accept the consequences of that choice, just as everyone does. Amado wonders if Kawaki's irritation stems from being powerless or grief over losing his Kāma. Naruto can't sense Isshiki, Sasuke, or Boruto, and
Kurama
 believes that Isshiki's cubes interfere with sensing. Kurama asks what Naruto's plan is, but he doesn't have a real one. Kurama has an idea that is only worth considering since Naruto is already expecting to die anyway, and it's not a choice to make lightly. Isshiki finishes telling Boruto his plan. Naruto kicks him aside. Isshiki is willing to let him live if he reveals Kawaki's location. Naruto gives Kurama the go ahead for the plan. Both Isshiki and Sasuke are impressed by Naruto's chakra.

Trivia

It is the final
Boruto
 chapter to be written by
Ukyō Kodachi
.