This article is about the episode.  For other uses, see
Sacrifice
.

"
Sacrifice
" (
生贄
,
Ikenie
) is episode 216 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Naruto
 asks
Boruto
 where they are, and Boruto confesses he doesn't know. Naruto believes Boruto inherited his act without thinking attitude.
Sasuke
 focuses on
Isshiki
's limited lifespan. Isshiki wants to punish
Amado
 for revealing all he did, and attacks. Naruto charges forward, but Isshiki
shrinks
 past him and grabs Boruto. He estimates that
Momoshiki
's
Kāma
 is about 80% decompressed. Sasuke
switches positions
 with Boruto, attempting a
Chidori
, but Isshiki grabs his wrist and tosses him aside, bothered by his
Rinnegan
. Isshiki finds it more expedient dealing with them here instead of them dragging him back there if he attempts returning to
Konoha
, hoping that their deaths will break the citizens and convince them to hand him
Kawaki
. Naruto warns him not to underestimate them. Kawaki wakes up from a dream with
Jigen
. Amado and
Shikamaru
 update him on what he has missed. He attempts to join the battle, but Amado points out his Kāma is gone, explaining how forcing Isshiki's resurrection through Jigen erased it.
 Kawaki still doesn't feel free, realising that Isshiki came to Konoha to implant him with a new Kāma.
Sumire
 tells him to have faith in Naruto and the others. Kawaki is concerned by Isshiki's strength, but Amado stresses all they need to do is avoid Isshiki for the remainder of his limited lifespan. Naruto strikes Isshiki with
chakra arms
 and
shadow clones
, and holds him place for Sasuke. Isshiki manifests cubes, crushing the shadow clones, while Sasuke switches places to avoid them. He separates Naruto and Sasuke, pierces Naruto with several chakra rods, and further pins him between two cubes. Boruto helps clear rubble off Sasuke. Sasuke notices Isshiki aiming rods at Boruto, and switches places, being hit instead. Amado and
Katasuke
 discuss how they might avoid Isshiki for two days, and Amado wonders if Boruto has realised his potential value against Isshiki. Isshiki attempts to crush Sasuke with a cube, but Boruto strikes against it with a
Compression Rasengan
. He fails to stop the cube, but Isshiki shrinks it as not to crush Boruto. Amado explains that a
Ten-Tails
 needs to consume a living
Ōtsutsuki
 to turn into a
God Tree
. Boruto realises Isshiki needs him for his plan, and explains it to Sasuke. He threatens to kill himself with a
kunai
 to stop Isshiki. Isshiki shrinks himself and Boruto's kunai. Sasuke tells Boruto that threats won't work, and orders him to run. Isshiki attacks Sasuke and reaches for Boruto. Amado continues to explain Ōtsutsuki practice, and Sumire realises Isshiki wants to use Boruto as a sacrifice. Isshiki admits to Boruto he can't kill him, but he can hurt him, breaking his wrist and stepping on him, and explains his role in Isshiki's plan. Amado says that sacrificing a young and healthy Ōtsutsuki will result in a better chakra fruit. Kawaki is frustrated and asks how much of the current situation is according to his plan, criticising him for remaining so calm. Amado merely states he makes the best decision he can at the time, and that one must be willing to accept the consequences of these decisions. He asks Kawaki if it's powerlessness that's irritating him or grief over losing this Kāma, before brushing it aside.
Kurama
 questions if Naruto has a plan, and reveals they have a last resort option when Naruto comes up empty, which means will mean certain death, and advises Naruto not make the choice lightly. Naruto decides to do it, so Kurama starts it and they break free of the cubes. He makes his way to Isshiki, all of them puzzled by his
new power
.

Trivia

This is the first episode in the franchise to have the episode title appear much later after the opening theme.

Despite having the same opening, it slightly changes from the previous episode, with the last scene of the opening in particular having a glow to it, which wasn’t there in the previous episodes.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Kawaki
Yuma Uchida
内田 雄馬
Uchida Yūma
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Sasuke Uchiha
Noriaki Sugiyama
杉山 紀彰
Sugiyama Noriaki
Amado
Akio Otsuka
大塚 明夫
Ōtsuka Akio
Shikamaru Nara
Shotaro Morikubo
森久保 祥太郎
Morikubo Shōtarō
Katasuke Tōno
Taira Kikumoto
菊本 平
Kikumoto Taira
Sumire Kakei
Aya Endo
遠藤 綾
Endō Aya
Isshiki Ōtsutsuki
Kenjiro Tsuda
津田 健次郎
Tsuda Kenjirō
Kurama
Tessho Genda
玄田 哲章
Genda Tesshō