The
Sage Art Wood Release: True Several Thousand Hands
 is a technique which creates a titanic, many-handed wooden statue that can be freely controlled by the user.

Usage

After entering
Sage Mode
, the user creates a wooden statue of titanic proportions; it is easily able to dwarf a full-sized
Kurama
, as well as  a Complete Body —
Susanoo
. Thousands of hands originate from the statue's back in countless concentric rows, while its two main hands are clasped, as if in prayer. The statue can serve a variety of purposes in battle, from fighting on the user's behalf to defending and even using
other techniques
. The sheer size of this technique makes it almost impossible to attack the user.

It can also detach its main self from its main arsenal to increase its mobility to adapt to a situation that requires more speed. With its immense strength, it can grab hold of a
tailed beast
 with ease and hold it in place, leaving it unable to move. Hashirama can then use the
Hokage-Style Sixty-Year-Old Technique — Kakuan Entering Society with Bliss-Bringing Hands
 in conjunction with the
Wood Human
 on the statue's head to suppress and remove any direct
control
 over the tailed beast.

Influence

This technique seems to be influenced by the Buddhist bodhisattva of compassion,
Avalokiteśvara
, also known as "Senju Kannon" (
千手観音
,
literally meaning:
 Thousand-Armed Kannon).

One prominent story tells of Kannon vowing never to rest until he had freed all beings from
Saṃsāra
. After strenuous effort, but struggling to comprehend the needs of so many who still had yet to be saved, his head splits into eleven pieces. The Buddha
Amida
, seeing his plight, gives him eleven heads with which to hear the cries of the suffering. Upon hearing and comprehending these cries, Kannon attempted to reach out to all those who needed aid, but found that his two arms shattered into pieces. Once more, Amida comes to his aid and grants him a thousand arms with which to aid the suffering.

Trivia

When used by Hashirama, the creatures created through the
Wood Release: Wood Human Technique
 and the
Wood Release: Wood Dragon Technique
 sit atop the head of the wooden statue.

In
Naruto x Boruto: Ultimate Ninja Storm Connections
, Asura's usage of the jutsu has the statue firing a large
Amenomihashira
 at the opponent.

References