Samehada
 (
鮫肌
,
literally meaning:
 Shark Skin) is a
sentient
 mystical
sword
 utilised by the
Seven Ninja Swordsmen of the Mist
, that is regarded as the most terrifying out of all the Seven Swordsmen's blades.

History

Passed down from generation to generation since the
First Mizukage
's era in
Kirigakure
,
 Samehada was eventually acquired by
Fuguki Suikazan
, and at some point, the sword was utilised by
Mangetsu Hōzuki
 in his act of mastering all seven swords of the Seven Swordsmen. Upon Fuguki being killed by his subordinate,
Kisame Hoshigaki
, he took the sword and joined the Seven Ninja Swordsmen. For the duration of Samehada being in his possession, their
chakra
 signatures eventually became identical, and Kisame became regarded as a "
Tailed Beast
 without a Tail
" (
尾を持たない尾獣
,
O o Motanai Bijū
,
English TV:
 Tailless Tailed Beast).
 When Kisame became a
Missing-nin
, he took Samehada with him.





Kisame hiding within Samehada.



During Kisame's initial fight with
Killer B
, Samehada grew fond of the taste of B's particular chakra and ultimately betrayed Kisame, (who was later revealed to be one of
White Zetsu
's
clones
 in
disguise
), by returning some of the chakra it had previously absorbed from B during their battle and even shielded him from his attacks. Meanwhile, the real Kisame was hiding within Samehada to infiltrate
Kumogakure
 as a spy before using it to absorb B's chakra when his presence was exposed.

After Kisame's death, Samehada mourns him, not only bestowing the blade with even more life-like characteristics but also standing as a testament to the bond shared between the two. Now in B's possession, Samehada kept five of his
swords
 within it to better assist him during the events of the
Fourth Shinobi World War
.

In the anime, fifteen years after the war, Samehada was now back in the possession of Kiri. At the same time, a rebellious group proclaiming themselves the
New Seven Ninja Swordsmen
 stole the seven blades to start a revolution against the modernisation and peaceful era of Kiri, and were determined to return to the days of the "Bloody Mist".
Shizuma Hoshigaki
 took up Samehada. Despite his high kenjutsu skill, ultimately Shizuma proved too inexperienced with the dangerous blade which then resulted in Samehada taking control of him when he was weakened, and thereby causing him to go on a feral rampage. Ultimately, he was defeated and separated from the blade by
Kagura Karatachi
 and
Boruto Uzumaki
, whereas Samehada calmed down after becoming full and content from all the chakra it ate.

Appearance





Samehada, wrapped in bandages.



Samehada is a large sword, roughly as tall as a full-grown man and comparable in size to the
Kubikiribōchō
. Though usually wrapped in bandages, Samehada's construction is atypical in that its actual blade is comprised from a series of downward-facing scales running along the entirety of its length until its hilt, at the base of which is a small skull. Samehada grows larger in proportion to the amount of chakra it absorbs, causing its scales to become so long that they ultimately resemble shark fins and its mouth, located at the tip of the blade, to become even more pronounced with visible teeth. Keeping Samehada wrapped in bandages apparently helps to inhibit this growth to a certain extent.

Sentience






Samehada refusing to let White Zetsu wield itself.



Samehada is unique for being a sentient weapon that gains nourishment from the chakra of others and, as such, the blade is at its happiest when engorged with chakra that possesses both a distinctive and pleasant
flavour
. It apparently greatly enjoys Killer B's chakra since, according to Kisame, it tastes like octopus. However, it has shown displeasure towards
fire
-natured chakra, stating that — according to B — it's far too hot. Being capable of conscious thought, Samehada chooses its own user, an exclusive process that has often resulted in it being thought of as notoriously picky. If someone it disapproves of attempts to wield it, spikes protrude from the handle in order to force them to release their grasp, at which point Samehada will make efforts to return to its chosen owner. To further exemplify it being a sentient being, it was able to mourn Kisame's death.

Abilities






Samehada slicing through Fire Release.



As the blade is made up of scales, it inflicts injuries through shredding or shaving what it comes into contact with, rather than just cutting the object in question. This flaying effect is similar to a
shark's skin
, hence the sword's name. While it ordinarily remains rigid, Samehada's hilt is able to stretch and bend to great extent, allowing the weapon to be used like a
flail
.
 To supplement the blade's offensive capabilities, it is able to extend its scales to spikes, and protrude spikes from its handle. Samehada can also be used in conjuncture with
Water Release
, leading to the sword glowing with chakra.






Samehada enlarging as a result of absorbing chakra.



Samehada shares a symbiotic relationship with its wielder, similar to that of the
kikaichū
. Although it continually consumes the chakra of its owner, its largest
meals
 come from fights, where it
absorbs the chakra
 of the opponent by slicing through it, preventing them from performing the technique in question.
 This is particularly useful when fighting
jinchūriki
, as Samehada can quickly deplete their large chakra supplies as well as remove their chakra cloaks, illustrated when Killer B was reduced back to Version 1 after initially being in Version 2. B noted that it can near instantly absorb up to six of his tails at once.
 In fact, although B came into contact with the blade several times in his battle against Kisame, the sword drained nearly all of his chakra, causing the latter to resort solely on
Gyūki
's.
 In the anime, it was even capable of "eating" a "Version Two"
Tailed Beast Ball
.
 However, it seems to be unable to automatically absorb ambient chakra, as in all instances where it has absorbed chakra are when either the opponent had a visible aura around them or when direct physical contact had already been established.
 Samehada is even capable of slicing through chakra that is
transformed
.
 The more chakra it absorbs, the larger it can become. Due to its voracious appetite, Samehada is drawn to those with large chakra supplies, allowing it to be used as a quasi-
sensor
. Samehada can produce a
mist veil
 through the wielder's blood. This enables it to absorb the chakra of anyone near through their open wounds.






Samehada fused with Kisame.



While the ability to absorb chakra is useful in defeating opponents, it is also beneficial to the user as well. Samehada has the ability to transfer the chakra it has absorbed to the wielder by partially fusing with them, so it can be used to either revitalise the wielder's chakra and stamina or instantly heal even fatal injuries. This makes the user of this sword extremely difficult to defeat conventionally. A wielder such as Kisame can take this fusion one step further by completely merging with Samehada. Doing so causes him to become much more shark-like in appearance, growing fins and webbed hands that allow him to move through water with considerable ease. Kisame also receives some of Samehada's abilities while in this form, such as being able to extend spikes from his body for offence, and absorbing chakra when others come into direct contact with him, as well as the ability to track chakra and avoid sensors.
 It will fuse with a weakened or inexperienced wielder on its own accord, taking them over and causing them to go on a rampage until they are separated.

Utilised Techniques

Bloody Mist Absorption Technique

Water Prison Shark Dance Technique

See Also

Marlin Harpoon

References