Samui
 (
サムイ
) is a
kunoichi
 from
Kumogakure
, and the leader of
Team Samui
.

Personality

As opposed to her talkative and impulsive
one-time

teammates
 and hot-headed younger
brother
, Samui is mature, calm, and generally silent, only speaking when needed. The word she has a tendency to say most is "
cool
" (
クール
,
kūru
). She has also shown a great level of self-control as she was able to refrain from using the word "cool" during her battle against the
Gold and Silver Brothers
 — something both her brother, and later
Darui
 would fail at. Because of her calm personality, even during missions, the
Fourth Raikage
 considers her to be a valuable and capable kunoichi, completely trusting her.

Appearance






Samui's full appearance.



Samui is a tall, fair-skinned woman with a curvaceous figure who generally wears a stoic, aloof expression on her face. She has blue eyes and straight, shoulder-length blonde hair cut in an asymmetrical bob style.

She wears a very low-cut outfit which displays her sizeable cleavage, with mesh armour underneath, a short skirt and red hand guards, high boots, and what appears to be a modified Kumogakure
flak jacket
 that covers her stomach only, similar to a girdle. She also carries a
tantō
 strapped horizontally to her lower back.

Abilities

As a
jōnin
, Samui is a quite skilled kunoichi. Like her teammates, Samui fights using
kenjutsu
, wielding a
tantō
 in battle. She is also very knowledgeable, as demonstrated by her in-depth knowledge of the
Gold and Silver Brothers
 and the four
mythical

weapons
 in their possession.

Part II

Pain's Assault

Main article:
Pain's Assault






Team Samui makes their début.



Samui and her team were sent to
Konoha
 by the
Fourth Raikage
 to inform them that they would be taking care of
Sasuke Uchiha
 and
Akatsuki
. In her first appearance, she was shown complaining of shoulder pains which, according to her teammate
Omoi
, were caused by her large breasts. Samui made no retaliation, unlike
Karui
.

Five Kage Summit

Main article:
Five Kage Summit

After
Naruto Uzumaki
's fight with Pain, Samui and her team were seen on the Konoha outskirts. After Omoi and Karui had a short argument regarding dating men and women, the team was shocked to find a crater in Konohagakure's place, which was caused by Pain's
Shinra Tensei
 shortly before his battle with Naruto. While Omoi believed that Karui had caused it by means of an avalanche after she had almost hit him with a thrown rock earlier, Samui ordered the team to find someone and ask them what had happened. Later, they came across a Konoha
jōnin
, who explained that it was the Akatsuki who had destroyed Konoha. Samui then asked the jōnin to let her have an audience with the Hokage so that she could deliver the Raikage's letter. She was disappointed to find the
Fifth Hokage
 in a coma, and asked
Shizune
 to talk to the new leader, after which
Danzō Shimura
 appeared in front of them proclaiming that he was the new Hokage and accepted the letter.






Team Samui in Konoha's Archive Library.



Later, she returned to her teammates to find Karui beating up Naruto, to which she told her not to cause trouble. As Naruto requested to see the Raikage, Samui remembered Naruto as the ninja the villagers thought should be the Hokage, but she refused him since the
Kage Summit
 was taking place and he was an unknown.

As Samui's team left Konoha later on after getting intel on Sasuke from the
Konoha Archive Library
,
Yamato
 implanted a
tracker
 on them in order to follow them to the Raikage. Yamato,
Kakashi Hatake
 and Naruto followed Samui, causing them to meet up with the Raikage and his assistants in the
Land of Iron
, allowing Naruto to ask the Raikage not to kill Sasuke. However, the Raikage refused to heed Naruto's request and Samui and the other Kumo-nin left with him soon after. She is later seen welcoming the Raikage and Killer B back to the village.

Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation

Main article:
Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation






Atsui and Samui assist Darui.



Later, she participates in the last meeting in order to fully prepare for the war. The Raikage orders her to form a
Surprise Attack Division
 then split the rest of the forces into multiple divisions and get them in formation. She later turns up alongside her brother
Atsui
 to aid
Darui
 in his fight with
Kinkaku
 and
Ginkaku
. She makes note of their legendary strength, and explains the four weapons they wield. The three are attacked by a group of White Zetsu, and Samui tries to stop Atsui from attacking, as she still had more to explain about the legendary weapons. After Atsui dispatches the White Zetsu, both he and Samui are hit by the
Kōkinjō
, and have their
"word souls"
 (
言霊
,
kotodama
) pulled out of their mouths. Their word souls are then cut away from their bodies by the
Shichiseiken
, and the words that they both most use appear on the flat of the blade — Samui's is "
cool
". The word souls are then sucked into the
Benihisago
 by Kinkaku. Atsui goes to say something but Samui cuts him off by putting her hand over his mouth. She explains that they've been hit with a combination curse and sealing technique, and that their word souls have been taken hostage. If they speak the words they've used most in their lives, they'll be sealed in the Benihisago for good.






Gikaku gags Samui to trigger the curse.


 Kinkaku then uses the
Bashōsen
 to unleash Flame Wrap - a large wave of flame that both Samui and Darui dodge. Atsui is hit by the flames and, completely oblivious to his overuse of the word "
hot
" (
あつい
,
atsui
), says it and is sealed away in the gourd. Samui is then caught off guard by Ginkaku, who restrains her with his hand over her mouth to keep her from speaking. He threatens that if Darui moves, he'll kill her. Samui sadly closes her eyes as Darui apologises to her and attacks Kinkaku. He severs Kinkaku's arm, and then saves Samui from Ginkaku by hitting him with his
Storm Release: Laser Circus
 technique. Samui is however trapped inside the Benihisago because people can also be sealed away for being silent and Ginkaku had gagged her long enough for the curse to take effect. Darui promises to find a way to release her, suggesting she's still alive.





Samui being absorbed into Benihisago.


 The gourd with Samui and her brother inside was later taken by
Tobi
 in order to seal the portion of the Nine-Tails' chakra that is within
Ginkaku
 who was also absorbed into the gourd.
 After Tobi's plan to capture the Eight and Nine-Tails failed, Tobi opted to instead feed the
Demonic Statue of the Outer Path
 the Benihisago as even a portion of the Eight and Nine-Tail's chakra would suffice the
Ten-Tails
's revival, with Samui still inside the gourd.

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Main article:
Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

When the war finally comes to an end, she and her brother were freed from the Benihisago by Darui.

In Other Media

Movies

Naruto the Movie: Blood Prison

Main article:
Naruto the Movie: Blood Prison

Samui makes a minor appearance when she and her teammates are talking about the
Box of Ultimate Bliss
 and the
Hōzuki Castle
 with A and
Mabui
 until she was knocked unconscious along with her teammates and Mabui by the
sleeping gas
.

Video Games

Samui is a playable character in the following video games:

Game name
Japanese release
English release
Naruto Mobile
2016
2016
Naruto: Shinobi Collection
2014
Naruto: Shinobi Collection Shippū Ranbu
27 July 2015
Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Online
14 April 2013
20 July 2016

Trivia

"Samui" (
寒い
) means "cold" in Japanese (in reference to temperature), a contrast to her brother's name "Atsui" which means "hot".

Aside from
Team Kakashi
, Samui and Atsui were the only members of the Allied Shinobi Forces to not be affected by the
Infinite Tsukuyomi
.

Quotes

(To the
Gold and Silver Brothers
) "
If you two really are the same Kinkaku and Ginkaku from the history books, I'd rather you don't call us one of "your own"… Not cool.
"

References