This article is about the sand used by Gaara and other shinobi. For the ninja village, see
Sunagakure
.

Sand
 (
砂
,
Suna
) is a versatile material, most often employed by the
shinobi
 originating from
Sunagakure
 for various purposes, including numerous supplementary functions ranging from concealment to disguise. However, the tool itself rose to prominence in the hands of the
jinchūriki
 of
Shukaku
, who acquired the ability to manipulate sand through the beast, with the most renowned amongst these being
Gaara
.

While Gaara is capable of controlling any sand, he keeps
specially-made sand
 (
特別製の砂
,
Tokubetsu Sei no Suna
) in his
gourd
,
 also made from this sand. This sand is infused with his chakra, allowing him to make faster and more powerful attacks, as well as being used to make his
Shield of Sand
. It was also noted by both Gaara's
father
 and
uncle
 that the sand would always protect him, because it possessed
his mother
's will within it.
 Since this revelation, many of Gaara's techniques have begun to adopt the appearance of his mother.

Sand includes a wide variety of minerals, and Gaara can select the hardest minerals to create stronger
defences
 and, in the anime,
offences
. However, Gaara also possesses the capability to incorporate other materials into the sand, increasing its versatility even further by introducing substances that can alter its properties to a certain degree, such as gold and hail.
 Similarly, he can insert his sand into other people, thereby exerting influence over their movements.

When in need of more sand, Gaara can crush the soil, meaning nearly any kind of earth, with the sand he already has to create more. Although this sand is more difficult to control than his specially-made sand, it provides the amount needed for large-scale techniques such as the
Quicksand Waterfall Flow
.

It was shown that despite its durability, the sand could be countered by mixing other harmful substances, such as
Explosive Clay
, into it. Other methods include the integration of substances that make the sand heavier, such as
gold
,
 or by making it
bind
 together through the use of oil, which means that the sand crumbles very easily.

Other Uses

Kankurō used sand to disguise his puppets, allowing him to make his puppets appear as another person,
 or as himself, to trick enemies into attacking his puppets instead of him.

In the anime, Sasori also used sand to make a
clone
 of himself as shown during his fight with
Kankurō
 when he escaped from
Kuroari
.

In the anime, Temari also utilised sand in her
Dust Wind Technique
 to cause her opponent to lose their footing in battle.

Due to the versatility of sand as a weapon, the
Third
 and
Fourth Kazekage
 both crafted their own imitations of sand manipulation via the use of their
Magnet Release
 kekkei genkai to manipulate
iron
 and
gold dust
 respectively.

In the anime,
Nagare
 also creates his
own

imitations
 of
Gaara
's sand manipulation through his
Assimilate All Creation Technique
 substituting sand with rock powder.

Earth Release users can also manipulate sand in some instances, as seen in the effects of
Earth Release: Hiding Like a Mole Technique
 and
Earth Release: Sand Dance
.

Wind Release users from
Sunagakure
 can utilise sand in similar fashion as well, as seen in the case of the
Wind Release: Sand Cloud Whirlwind
 technique.

Trivia

Because sand only “burns” at extremely high temperatures, it has some measure of immunity towards
Fire Release
, with it being the only substance which
Amaterasu
, the highest level Fire Release technique, has yet to burn into or through instantly.

Due to the number of people Gaara has killed, his sand smells of blood, as noted by
Kiba Inuzuka
.

References