This article is about the chapter. For the character, see
Sarada Uchiha
. For other uses, see
Sarada Uchiha (disambiguation)
.

"
Sarada Uchiha
" (
うちはサラダ
,
Uchiha Sarada
) is chapter 700+1 of the
Naruto Gaiden
 mini-series.

Summary

As
Shino Aburame
 explains to his class that within one week they'll be going through graduations for
genin
 positions, the majority of the class voices their views on the opportunity. As
Sarada Uchiha
 walks home, she begins to show jealousy over all her classmates getting training from their fathers for the coming graduation, with
Chōchō Akimichi
 eating with her father
Chōji Akimichi
,
Inojin Yamanaka
 getting
drawing lessons
 from his father
Sai
, and even
Boruto Uzumaki
 playing an expansive game of hide-and-seek with his ever busy father the Seventh
Hokage

Naruto Uzumaki
, coupled with being given a lecture by
Shikadai Nara
 and his father
Shikamaru Nara
.
 Seeing all this, Sarada quietly admits she has never seen her own father,
Sasuke Uchiha
, in her whole life. Upon returning home and seeing a picture of her parents together, Sarada questions her mother
Sakura Uchiha
 on if her father needed glasses like her. However, when Sakura can't give her a straight answer, Sarada openly questions the validity of her parents' marriage causing Sakura to
violently lash out
 for the comment. Seeing that her daughter is acting out of sadness rather than anger she collects herself, Sakura apologises to her daughter but realises her outburst has destroyed their house, much to her horror as apparently this is not the first time Sakura destroyed it as she cries out about a loan she took out, fainting. Dropping off her mother to
Shizune
, Sarada returns to her house's ruins to collect some valuables. However, as she picks up the picture from before, Sarada makes a horrifying discovery: the picture is fake. Pulling out the larger picture of her father, she sees him with the rest of his team
Taka
 and, to her horror,
Karin
, a girl with glasses similar to her, causing Sarada to further question the validity of her parents' marriage and, more importantly, her own parentage as well. All the while, Sasuke appears to be returning to
Konoha
.