This is the
puppet
 created by
Sasori
 made to look like his original body. When he inhabited it, it contained his "core of living flesh" (
生身の核
,
namami no kaku
) in the left compartment in its chest.

Usage

Sasori





Sasori using himself.



On the right side of his chest compartment was a mechanism that could spin numerous
chakra threads
, which allowed Sasori to use his
Red Secret Technique: Performance of a Hundred Puppets
. Its stomach cavity contained a thick cable coiled around a pole (which was coated in Sasori's poison before his death), allowing the puppeteer to use it as a stinger and retract it if necessary. Attached to its back was a scroll holder, containing four scrolls that seem to serve as "ammunition", one of which Sasori used to store his puppets. The puppet also has a pair of poles to the back of its hips, each equipped with five large blades (also drenched in poison) that could spin like propellers, and pipes running through each of its hands that could spew out
intense fire
 or
powerful jets of water
.

While his core of living flesh was inhabiting the puppet body, Sasori held the puppet together at their connecting joints with his chakra threads. Therefore, should it be struck by brute force, the pieces would simply fall apart, thus absorbing the impact and preventing actual damage, and he can reconnect the joints together, making the puppet very difficult to destroy. Using this puppet grants Sasori combat of all ranges, annulling the typical weakness of close ranged combat for most puppeteers.

While outside of his
puppet armour
, Sasori would hide his weaponised body under his
Akatsuki
 robes. This made those who are unaware of his conversion to be confused at how he managed to retain the appearance of a teenager despite being 35 years old.

Kankurō





Kankurō retrieves Sasori's puppet body.



After Sasori's death,
Kankurō
 retrieved the puppet and made several modifications to it.
 During Kankurō's usage of the puppet, it was shown to have a
Mechanical Light Shield Block
 installed into it. The left arm of the puppet is also able to extend. Using this puppet enables Kankurō to use the
Red Secret Technique: Machinery Triangles
.

Trivia

While Sasori inhabited the puppet, the mouth and eyes looked like those of a normal person's, and when his Core of Living Flesh abandoned it, the eyes turned to hollow holes. When Kankurō controlled the puppet, the eyes are empty and the mouth became jointed like those of puppets.

Per
Akatsuki
 wardrobe standards, he wore the organisation's ring on this puppet's left thumb, along with teal coloured nail polish.

According to Sasori, he hasn't used himself since joining Akatsuki, until his final battle against
Sakura Haruno
 and
Chiyo
. The last usage before joining was when he fought against
Konan
 when she challenged him to recruit him into the organisation.

Sasori seems to have created more than one puppet in his own image, as when he abandoned this one just before it was
sealed
, his core came to inhabit another puppet in his image.

Although Sakura believed that Sasori converted himself into a
human puppet
, this is not truly the case, as his still living core was his true body. Sasori himself admitted he was not truly a puppet nor human, but somewhere in-between. This was subverted when Sasori was later
reincarnated
 into a corpse vessel by
Kabuto Yakushi
, where Sasori, being manipulated, felt he finally became a puppet.

References