"
Sasuke Retsuden: The Ring
" (
サスケ烈伝・指輪
,
Sasuke Retsuden・Yubiwa
) is episode 286 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Sasuke
 fights his way back to the institute against the flying
dinosaurs
 with
Menō
's help. He notices the Titan's emergence, and recalling that
Zansūru
 brought up Sasuke having an ally, Sasuke realises
Jiji
 is Zansūru's accomplice, the only other person who knew he wasn't working alone. Zansūru thinks the
Prime Minister
 will be pleased by the assets. Sasuke has Menō evacuate the prisoners while he goes after
Sakura
. He grows agitated when he can't
sense
 her
chakra
. Sakura wakes up pinned, can't mould chakra because of the
poison
, and passes out. She wakes up to Sasuke tending her wound. She apologises for not stopping Jiji, but he tells her not to worry. She prepared a serum against the poison beforehand. Zansūru joins up with Jiji, who hands him the
polar particles
. Zansūru wants to kill all the inmates before joining the minister to suppress
Nanara
's rebellion. Jiji tells him not to renege on his promise. Zansūru has Jiji target
Ganno
, but Menō stops the dinosaur attacking him. They're surprised by it, and deduce Sasuke took control of Menō. Sasuke and Sakura arrive, so Zansūru changes the dinosaur's focus to them. Sakura
breaks the ground
 around the dinosaurs.
 Zansūru sends Jiji after her. Sasuke makes the flying dinosaurs crash against each other with
Chidori Senbon
. Menō climbs the Titan to attack Zansūru, who narrowly escapes, being picked up by a flying dinosaur. Sasuke continues attacking the dinosaurs with his
sword
,
Fire Release
, and
Chidori
. Sasuke receives a message by a
hawk
, and shares that the minister has been imprisoned by king Nanara. Zansūru decides to keep fighting in the minister's name, as he can still grow his dinosaur army while in possession of the polar particles. Sakura helps more prisoners evacuate, but is chased by Jiji. He blocks her escape with an
Earth Release: Earth-Style Wall
. Sakura becomes paralysed as a side effect of the serum, but Jiji gets likewise caught in a
trap
 she lured him into. Sasuke lures the Titan into the lake, where it struggles to move. Sasuke
switches places
 with a flying dinosaur, getting close to Zansūru, who commands the one carrying him to flee. It drops him instead, crashing down into the ground, dead. Sasuke switches with another dinosaur on the ground. Zansūru commanding the dinosaurs despite not being in control of them meant new orders replaced the old ones. Sasuke retrieves the polar particles, and he and Menō get back to Sasuke. He asks what Jiji's goal was. Sakura releases her trap, and Sasuke intends to hand Jiji over to the
Land of Redaku
. Jiji reveals he was a
missing-nin
 from
Suna
, and joined the minister when asked to create a private army. He fell in love with his attendant
Margo
, turning away from war. However, while he was in a mission, Margo died in an epidemic, and he was approached with an offer. If he revived the dinosaurs, the country would release her corpse from him to resurrect. Sakura admits she might try the same in his situation, but her friends would stop her, and she doesn't believe their deceased loved ones would approve. Sasuke reveals Jiji was deceived, as Margo is mentioned as cooperating with king Nanara. Jiji cries in joy and relief, and releases the
reincarnation ninjutsu
, all the dinosaurs turning into dust. Sasuke bids Menō farewell. One of the dinosaurs attacks Sakura as it disappears, but Jiji protects her, getting bitten. Sakura tries
healing
 him, feeling he has to go see Margo, but he doesn't think he deserves it. Later,
Naruto
 has recovered in
Konoha
, and asks about how Redaku is doing to
Kakashi
. He updates him that Nanara is officially king now. Sakura catches up with
Ino
, who notes her ring. Sakura recalls how Sasuke found her in the debris because of the ring. Nanara visits the ruins of the institute, and intends to rebuild it with Margo and Jiji's help. Still away in a mission, Sasuke and Sakura both miss each other, but are not worried.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Sasuke
Noriaki Sugiyama
杉山 紀彰
Sugiyama Noriaki
Sakura
Chie Nakamura
中村 千絵
Nakamura Chie
Naruto
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Ino
Ryoka Yuzuki
柚木 涼香
Yuzuki Ryōka
Kakashi
Kazuhiko Inoue
井上 和彦
Inoue Kazuhiko
Zansūru
Hiroki Tochi
東地 宏樹
Tōchi Hiroki
Jiji
Takeshi Kusao
草尾 毅
Kusao Takeshi
Margo
Kumi Takaragi
宝木 久美
Takaragi Kumi
Prince Nanara
Juri Nagatsuma
長妻 樹里
Nagatsuma Juri
Ganno
Kenichi Ono
小野 健一
Ono Ken'ichi
Prisoners
Hirokazu Sekido
Katsunori Okai
Kosuke Katayama
Kazuya Saji
Ryo Nishitani
関戸 博一
岡井 カツノリ
片山 公輔
佐治 和也
西谷 亮
Sekido Hirokazu
Okai Katsunori
Katayama Kōsuke
Saji Kazuya
Nishitani Ryō