"
Sasuke Retsuden: The Secret in the Cellar
" (
サスケ烈伝・地下室の秘密
,
Sasuke Retsuden・Chikashitsu no Himitsu
) is episode 284 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Penjira
 loses a bet to
Jiji
 over the timing of
Menō
 passing by their cell. Using an almond tree branch from
Ganno
, Jiji lures Menō near to pet it. Jiji explains that despite not eating almonds, he always sees Menō under the almond tree, deducing it likes the scent. Ganno pets Menō, and encouraged by his success, Penjira tries it as well. However, his foot goes slightly outside their cell, agitating Menō over a rule being broken. The commotion causes hot oil from the lantern to spill and burn Menō, who runs away. Jiji smooths things over when a guard checks on them. The next day,
Sakura
 greets messenger
Fundaru
. She learns that Fundaru himself doesn't know the specifics of what the
Prime Minister
 wants with
Zansūru
, only that he must inquire about a certain progress. After getting details of whether Fundaru and Zansūru met before, and when Zansūru last visited the palace, she gets him to
Sasuke
, who knocks Fundaru out with his
Sharingan
. They go over their plan, and Sakura explains a vulnerability she learned about Zansūru's artificial eye, that it has a narrow field of vision at high angles. Sakura
transforms
 into Fundaru and goes to meet Zansūru.
 She distracts him by making him go to the window, and tosses Fundaru's cane across the room, actually a transformed Sasuke. Zansūru asks about the missing cane, and Sakura produces another one, hidden beneath Fundaru's cloak. Sakura stalls for Sasuke to have enough time to map the keyhole with chakra and make a key with
Earth Release
. Zansūru asks what the Prime Minister wants, and Sakura asks about the progress. Zansūru answers that he already intends to send the assets to the capital, but refuses to elaborate on the numbers. Sasuke manages to get down to the cellar. He goes through another door, and is surprised to find a number of chickens and fossils. Sakura leaves the meeting with Zansūru, and Sasuke discovers the room has an exit to behind the main building. From an altar present in the room, Sasuke believes Zansūru is resurrecting the fossils with
Impure World Reincarnation
. Menō attacks Sasuke, who notices the burn from the previous night hasn't healed. While dodging its attacks, Sasuke notes it doesn't have a tag embedded into it, despite clearing acting on Zansūru's orders, and adjust his premise, still believing it to be reincarnation ninjutsu. He stops Menō from attacking with a sheathed
sword
, and through a
shadow clone
, applies
supercooled water
 to his burn. Sasuke lets Menō bite him, and convinces it to let him help Menō go back to where it was before being brought back. Reaching inside and grabbing Menō's tongue, Sasuke flows his chakra to overwrite
genjutsu
 control over it. Now affectionate, it obeys Sasuke. At the altar, someone resurrects more fossils for Zansūru, who wants to have an army of dragon beasts.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Sasuke
Noriaki Sugiyama
杉山 紀彰
Sugiyama Noriaki
Sakura
Chie Nakamura
中村 千絵
Nakamura Chie
Zansūru
Hiroki Tochi
東地 宏樹
Tōchi Hiroki
Fundaru
Shinnosuke Tachibana
立花 慎之介
Tachibana Shinnosuke
Jiji
Takeshi Kusao
草尾 毅
Kusao Takeshi
Penjira
Chikahiro Kobayashi
小林 親弘
Kobayashi Chikahiro
Ganno
Kenichi Ono
小野 健一
Ono Ken'ichi
Patrolling
Ryo Nishitani
Kazuya Saji
西谷 亮
佐治 和也
Nishitani Ryō
Saji Kazuya