"
Sasuke Retsuden: Infiltration
" (
サスケ烈伝・潜入
,
Sasuke Retsuden・Sennyū
) is episode 282 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Near the
Land of Redaku
,
Sasuke
 overhears a pair of women discussing a wedding ring, recalling being told of the custom. He sends a messenger hawk, expending his search for intel on
Code
, returning to the Land of Redaku for the first time since
Naruto
 was afflicted with an illness years prior.
Kurama
 had shared with Naruto that the
Sage of Six Paths
 suffered from the same illness. Looking through their records, they discovered the Sage recovered while visiting the
Astronomy Research Institute
 in the Land of Redaku.
Kakashi
 was sent to investigate, as the
Land of Fire
 doesn't have diplomatic relations, but the situation is precarious, with the country suffering from famine, and their
prime minister
 having taken power after the death of their king. He had become a tutor to Prince
Nanara
, using the opportunity to search through their records for more information. The prince couldn't read or write, so Kakashi had to teach him before tutoring him could lead to any intel. Sasuke decided to investigate on his own, Naruto too weak to stop him. He infiltrated the institute as a prisoner, the institute now functioning as a prison, to look for records of how the Sage recovered from the illness.
 Sasuke was introduced to his cell-mates, learning their names and sentences, and defended himself when other inmates attacked him. A couple guards try to discipline him, but director
Zansūru
 points out everything Sasuke did was in self-defence. He advises Sasuke not to do anything too conspicuous. One of the inmates attempts to use the commotion to escape, but is killed by
Menō
. The prisoners watch as Menō devours the prisoner. The prisoners work while Menō patrols the area. In his cell at night, Sasuke refuses to gamble at first, thinking about Menō, but changes his mind, wanting a favour instead. He uses
ninjutsu
 to win with dice, and wants
Jiji
 to distract the guards if they patrol the area while he looks around. Jiji doesn't want to do it, but Sasuke leaves. He needs freedom to look for records on the Sage, and Menō is in the way. Sasuke thinks Menō is Zansūru's summon, but his permanence is unusual. Menō attacks Sasuke, immune to his
genjutsu
, who is forced to fight back. He is concerned with leaving evidence of a battle, but has to slash Menō's claws and torso. Menō flees. The next day, Sasuke is surprised to see Menō healed from every injury Sasuke gave him. Zansūru confronts Sasuke about attacking Menō. Sasuke attempts to use genjutsu, but Zansūru's artificial eye makes it ineffective on him. Zansūru warns him he'll increase surveillance. The prime minister wants Nanara to evacuate his village for military occupation, wishing to attack other countries to acquire land to deal with the famine, as they received no help over their lack of diplomatic relations. Kakashi infiltrates the library during the meeting, and discovers records about the Sage of Six Paths.

Trivia

While in the manga and novel, Sasuke used his improvised Ice Release to produce a kunai against Menō, he summoned a regular kunai from a scroll in this episode.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Sasuke
Noriaki Sugiyama
杉山 紀彰
Sugiyama Noriaki
Naruto
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Shikamaru
Shotaro Morikubo
森久保 祥太郎
Morikubo Shōtarō
Kakashi
Kazuhiko Inoue
井上 和彦
Inoue Kazuhiko
Zansūru
Hiroki Tochi
東地 宏樹
Tōchi Hiroki
Jiji
Takeshi Kusao
草尾 毅
Kusao Takeshi
Penjira
Chikahiro Kobayashi
小林 親弘
Kobayashi Chikahiro
Ganno
Kenichi Ono
小野 健一
Ono Ken'ichi
Prince Nanara
Juri Nagatsuma
長妻 樹里
Nagatsuma Juri
Princess Manari
Natsumi Yamada
山田 奈都美
Yamada Natsumi
Land of Redaku prime minister
Kosuke Katayama
片山 公輔
Katayama Kōsuke
Prisoners
Hirokazu Sekido
Katsunori Okai
Kazuya Saji
Ryo Nishitani
関戸 博一
岡井 カツノリ
佐治 和也
西谷 亮
Sekido Hirokazu
Okai Katsunori
Saji Kazuya
Nishitani Ryō
Tea house female customers
Aoi Inase
Kumi Takaragi
いなせ あおい
宝木 久美
Inase Aoi
Takaragi Kumi