"
Sasuke Retsuden: Star Lines
" (
サスケ烈伝・星ならべ
,
Sasuke Retsuden・Hoshinarabe
) is episode 283 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Sasuke
 receives a beating from the guards over his attempt to put
Zansūru
 under
genjutsu
, putting on no resistance and giving no reaction.
Jiji
 and
Penjira
 check on him. Jiji suggests Sasuke get himself checked in the infirmary, having learned of a new, attractive, and single doctor. Penjira accuses him of using Sasuke to see her again after being treated the previous day, Jiji admitting to it.
Ganno
 refuses to join them, and reveals that Zansūru's office has a cellar, where he is rumoured to keep a secret. Zansūru and
Menō
 check on the Menō Sasuke defeated, finding Sasuke to be troublesome, but confident that making more Menō can settle things. Sasuke sneaks out at night again, and combats Menō again. He wonders if this Menō was healed or if it's a different one, and begins to feel the effects of
poison
 from a claw cut on his cheek. A doctor arrives just in time to pacify Menō, causing it give up attacking Sasuke and leave. Sasuke passes out, and when he wakes up in the infirmary, he learns that
Sakura
 is the new doctor. She has come to update him on his mission, having received intel from
Kakashi
 about the
Sage of Six Paths
' illness, detailing how he was cured from it with what became known as
polar particles
. He hid the rest of it, leaving behind clues on where and how to find it.
 She draws some of his blood, surprised the poison affected him. Sasuke wants her to return, respecting her strength, but finding himself capable enough, and suspicious of whatever Zansūru it up to with the beasts who were supposed to be extinct. She refuses to leave, but is happy that he's concerned for her. Sasuke finds Jiji eavesdropping on them, who claims he got permission to get himself treated for his blisters. He heard that Sasuke and Sakura are married. Sakura claims she came to work there to see Sasuke, as visitors aren't allowed. On their way back to their cell, Sasuke asks Jiji not to tell anyone he's married to Sakura, and Jiji reveals he has a fiancée himself in the Redaku capital. Jiji is appalled to learn Sasuke and Sakura are apart for years at times, and advises him to get Sakura a ring. Sasuke asks if Jiji knows anything about astronomical documents, and he advises Sasuke to ask Penjira, who is a librarian. Sakura asks Penjira about it when he's gambling during lunch break. He checks that the books are in a restricted basement, which would require Zansūru's permission to check out. Sakura wants to gamble with him for the key, promising to smuggle him as many cigarettes as he wants if he wins. He introduces her to
Hoshinarabe
, and she picks it up quickly, beating him. He accuses her of cheating, but lends her to key anyway. At night, she explains to Sasuke she memorised the unique wear and damage of each card, something she began doing to always draw when playing with
Tsunade
, boring her into stop playing. She asks him about Jiji, who often visits her and talks about his fiancée. Recalling Jiji's words, he asks her about how she feels about them spending so much time apart. She is flustered, but answers she isn't worried, even if she misses him sometimes. He makes her a wedding ring and asks her to wear it. They find the book, which contains ink paintings related to the Hoshinarabe cards. They paintings depict constellations. Sasuke recognises some of the constellations as
Tailed Beasts
, and they deduce the two remaining paintings depict
Janmāru-Tataru
 and the Sage of Six Paths himself. They wonder where they could look for more information, and Sasuke mentions the rumour about Zansūru's basement. Someone eavesdropping on them leaves. Sakura mentions that a messenger from the capital will meet with Zansūru the next day, which could give them an opportunity to investigate. She wants to
impersonate
 the messenger, allowing Sasuke to look around.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Sasuke
Noriaki Sugiyama
杉山 紀彰
Sugiyama Noriaki
Sakura
Chie Nakamura
中村 千絵
Nakamura Chie
Zansūru
Hiroki Tochi
東地 宏樹
Tōchi Hiroki
Jiji
Takeshi Kusao
草尾 毅
Kusao Takeshi
Penjira
Chikahiro Kobayashi
小林 親弘
Kobayashi Chikahiro
Ganno
Kenichi Ono
小野 健一
Ono Ken'ichi
Patrolling
Hirokazu Sekido
Katsunori Okai
Ryo Nishitani
関戸 博一
岡井 カツノリ
西谷 亮
Sekido Hirokazu
Okai Katsunori
Nishitani Ryō
Prisoners
Kazuya Saji
Kosuke Katayama
佐治 和也
片山 公輔
Saji Kazuya
Katayama Kōsuke