"
Sasuke's Shadow
" (
サスケの影
,
Sasuke no Kage
) is episode 52 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Konohamaru
 is surprised at the sight of
White Zetsu
, believing all of them to have been destroyed in the last war. It attacks them with
Lightning Release
,
Fire Release
, and
Wind Release
. Konohamaru struggles against the White Zetsu, and the genin are unable to help him.
Boruto
 uses the Scientific Ninja Tool
Katasuke
 gave him for his birthday, which stuns the White Zetsu long enough for Konohamaru to land a significant attack, forcing it to retreat. As
Mitsuki
 tends to his injuries, Konohamaru tells them about the White Zetsu. Mitsuki finds a room with a giant flower, that in the past was used to cultivate White Zetsu. Konohamaru comments that the particular form of White Zetsu they fought is something they had never seen before. Mitsuki surmises there's only one White Zetsu, as the flower is dried up, so without chakra, it can't incubate more Zetsu.
 Konohamaru notices Mitsuki seems to know a lot about the Zetsu, and Mitsuki tells him he was taught by his parent. Boruto proposes they destroy the location, which Konohamaru agrees, but refuses to deploy a certain something when Boruto suggests it. Konohamaru decides to go forward alone, and wants the genin to report back to the village if he doesn't come back.
Sarada
 argues that splitting up will make all of them more vulnerable, so Konohamaru allows them to go with him, and relays a strategy. They find and attack the White Zetsu. Konohamaru has Sarada use her
Sharingan
 to anticipate which attack the Zetsu will use, so each of them can counterbalance its ninjutsu. The White Zetsu switches to physical attacks, so they have Boruto distract it with shadow clones. Boruto tries going in himself when the Zetsu appears weakened, but is captured. Mitsuki manages to free Boruto, and Konohamaru attacks with a
Rasengan
, finishing it off. They go further down at the roots, where they find numerous decomposed Zetsu cocoons. They arrive at the innermost portion of the ruins, where they find several White Zetsu burning in black flames. Konohamaru explains
Sasuke
's involvement, and his mission tracking anything related to Kaguya. His claim of Sasuke's strength and rivalry with
Naruto
 spark Boruto's interest. Naruto sends a clone and Konoha shinobi to their location, and discusses with Konohamaru who would make Kaguya go to such lengths in preparing for battle. The genin discuss how they're to keep quiet about this, and how they didn't have enough strength. Meanwhile, Sasuke enters Kaguya's ice dimension to investigate. He is watched from afar by
Momoshiki
 and
Kinshiki
.

Trivia

Mitsuki erroneously says it's nearly been ten years since the White Zetsu lost their
master
, when it has actually been fifteen years. Also present in the English dub.

This is the last episode of the English dub to premiere on television for the foreseeable future, as
Adult Swim
 replaces the anime with the English dub of
JoJo's Bizarre Adventure: Golden Wind
 on the
Toonami
 programming block on October 27th, 2019. Block runner Jason DeMarco originally stated on Twitter that they intended to bring
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 back at a later date, but later stated they had no foreseeable plans for bringing it back.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Amanda Celine Miller
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Cherami Leigh
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Robbie Daymond
Konohamaru Sarutobi
Hidenori Takahashi
高橋 英則
Takahashi Hidenori
Max Mittelman
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Maile Flanagan
Sasuke Uchiha
Noriaki Sugiyama
杉山 紀彰
Sugiyama Noriaki
Yuri Lowenthal
Katasuke Tōno
Taira Kikumoto
菊本 平
Kikumoto Taira
Christopher Corey Smith
White Zetsu (Biological Weapon)
Atsushi Abe
阿部 敦
Abe Atsushi
Aaron LaPlante
Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki
Daisuke Namikawa
浪川 大輔
Namikawa Daisuke
Xander Mobus
Kinshiki Ōtsutsuki
Hiroki Yasumoto
安元 洋貴
Yasumoto Hiroki
Wally Wingert