"
Sasuke Retsuden: The Sky that Fell to the Earth
" (
サスケ烈伝・地に降りし空
,
Sasuke Retsuden・Chi ni Furishi Sora
) is episode 285 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

A messenger
hawk
 delivers an update from
Kakashi
 to
Sakura
 by sunset, informing her that the
Prime Minister
 has taken military action in Princess
Manari
's name. She recalls
Zansūru
's words of sending assets to the capital, wonders where he could be keeping them, and goes to search for
Sasuke
. She doesn't find him in the lunch hall, and reviews what they don't know yet.
Ganno
 sits to eat next to her, and notices her wedding ring. He asks about her husband, and surprises her when he mentions Sasuke by name, explaining he overheard Sasuke and
Jiji
 talking about it. He adds that before Sakura arrived, Sasuke would spend time watching the flowers outside, and leaves. She checks outside, and sees a blooming almond tree, whose flowers resemble cherry blossoms. Thinking about the paintings, constellations, and zodiacs, she realises those are connected to
hand seals
. Sasuke and Jiji work sorting out inedible apricots, Jiji telling him a prisoner died of unknown causes after eating one. Sasuke spots a lake on the distance, and Jiji explains it's supposedly a meteor crater that filled with rainwater. There are no fish, and during the day, its shade of blue makes it look like the sky fell to the earth.
 Sasuke realises something and leaves, telling Jiji he'll take his next kitchen duty. Sasuke and Sakura meet at her office. She explains how the hands in
Hoshinarabe
 are the hand seals required to reveal the
polar particles
, and he explains he discovered where the sky that fell to earth is, asking her to accompany him at night. Sasuke leaves his cell at night, which Jiji notices. Sakura is concerned about
Menō
, but he assures it's fine. He holds her when she trips jumping down her office window. He takes her to the lake, reflecting the starry night sky. They hold hands, and he asks her if she wants a proper wedding ring, as a reminder of their marriage when they're apart. Sakura says she thought about it, but she'd have to take it off for work. He doesn't usually worry, but it gets to him when he sees
Sarada
 has grown taller, or Sakura has changed her hair style. Sakura feels the same when she notices faint wrinkles on him when he laughs. She performs the hand seals, and a
pillar of light
 emerges from the lake. Sakura walks up to it and collects the sealed polar particles, causing the pillar to dissipate. She stores them, and an explosion goes off at the institute. They notice several flying
dragon beasts
 take off, and wonder if those are the assets Zansūru mentioned. Sasuke wants to capture one, and instructs Sakura to capture Zansūru at the institute. She leaves for the institute, and Zansūru lands on a dragon beast. He thanks Sasuke for recovering the polar particles. Sasuke realises he had used the inmate to excavate the fossils, the chickens as vessels, and the apricots which had absorbed the particles' energy to resurrect the dragon beasts. Their uncovering of the particles allowed him to revive a large number of beasts at once. Zansūru claims to be acting on behalf of the nation, and Sasuke warns that using
kinjutsu
 as such will carry consequences. Zansūru doesn't know about
Impure World Reincarnation
 when Sasuke mentions it. When Sasuke asks if he intends to support the Prime Minister, Zansūru realises he has an ally near Prince
Nanara
. Noticing his true loyalty to the minister, Sasuke finds it unlikely that Zansūru would release the jutsu. He is surprised to see with his
Sharingan
 that Zansūru has too little
chakra
 to be a
shinobi
, so someone else brought back and is controlling the beasts. At the institute, several beasts continue to appear and attack the inmates.
Penjira
 is almost killed by one, and is saved by Sakura, who
punches
 open a whole through the institutes walls, allowing the inmates to flee, as well as punching one of the beasts nearby. She goes looking for Zansūru, but he's not there. Instead, she finds inmates hiding inside, and tells them of the exit she created. Jiji asks her what happened, and she tells him Zansūru is responsible. He claims he saw Zansūru in the courtyard earlier, but she came from there and didn't see him. He hugs her close and stabs her with a
poisoned

kunai
, which she recognises as the one Sasuke was poisoned with by Menō. Jiji is working with Zansūru, and allowed her to move freely so they could find the polar particles. He gets the particles from her. She tries to stop him, and he confesses he really did appreciate her, who reminds him of his girlfriend
Margo
, so she's sad she has to die, and leaves. He wants to use the particles to resurrect Margo, and uses the
reincarnation ninjutsu
. The entire institute begins to crumble as the ground shifts, and an excited Zansūru leaves Sasuke fighting the flying beasts. A gigantic beasts emerges from where the institute used to be. Sakura is paralysed as debris falls around her.

Trivia

During Sasuke's recollection of his family, Sarada in shown with her
forehead protector
 and current age, despite the story of
Sasuke Retsuden
 taking place years before the start of the series in the anime's timeline of events.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Sasuke
Noriaki Sugiyama
杉山 紀彰
Sugiyama Noriaki
Sakura
Chie Nakamura
中村 千絵
Nakamura Chie
Zansūru
Hiroki Tochi
東地 宏樹
Tōchi Hiroki
Jiji
Takeshi Kusao
草尾 毅
Kusao Takeshi
Penjira
Chikahiro Kobayashi
小林 親弘
Kobayashi Chikahiro
Ganno
Kenichi Ono
小野 健一
Ono Ken'ichi
Prisoners
Kazuya Saji
Kosuke Katayama
Katsunori Okai
Ryo Nishitani
Hirokazu Sekido
佐治 和也
片山 公輔
岡井 カツノリ
西谷 亮
関戸 博一
Saji Kazuya
Katayama Kōsuke
Okai Katsunori
Nishitani Ryō
Sekido Hirokazu