"
Scar
" (
痕
,
Ato
) is chapter 68 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 manga.

Summary

Boruto
 explains the details of his resurrection to
Amado
,
Katasuke
, and
Sai
, according to what he learned from
Momoshiki
. While they understand that Momoshiki can no longer resurrect through Boruto, Amado stresses that the issue of his consciousness taking over remains. Katasuke points out the meds have worked so far, but Boruto claims he doesn't need them anymore. Unable to explain himself properly, he says he feels different from before, and better able to channel Momoshiki's power.
Sumire
,
Shikamaru
,
Ibiki
, and
Naruto
 watch over
Kawaki
, still sleeping, but healed of all injuries. Shikamaru had Sumire check on Kawaki because he's unwilling to let Amado near him before interrogating him. Ibiki questions the decision not to restrain Kawaki, but Shikamaru counters that between
Sukunahikona
 and
Kāma
, Kawaki can escape any restraints they attempt to place on him, so all they can do is avoid antagonising him. His goal is simply to protect Naruto, so they hope he remains their ally. Naruto intends to have a long talk with Kawaki when he wakes up. Sumire notices the heavy atmosphere and asks Shikamaru about it.
 He attributes it to Naruto having just avoided death.
Sasuke
 arrives with intel on
Code
, having discovered a secret facility few in
Boro
's
Ōtsutsuki Cult
 knew about in the
Land of Snow
. He lists its supposed activities, including
scientific ninja tool
 research
Kara
 didn't know about. It also functioned as a disposal facilities for the cyborgs
Jigen
 ordered to be scrapped. Sasuke says an acquaintance of Code's named
Bug
 is there. Sasuke says he heard about Kawaki, and Shikamaru confirms it, adding only
Ino
, Sai, Amado, and Katasuke know about it, still deciding how to proceed. Sasuke wants to see Boruto. At the Land of Snow facility,
Ada
 reviews the events after Code's retreat, and reveals Boruto's resurrection through Momoshiki's Kāma. She could determine Boruto and Momoshiki communicated, speculating they did so in some sort of spiritual plane her
Senrigan
 can't monitor. Code takes it as good fortune, and Ada warns him she's displeased with him using
Daemon
 without her permission. She reminds him his job is to bring Kawaki to her, and that even after he regains his strength, if she determines him to be even a hindrance to her, she and Daemon will dispose of him. Code claims sadness for she doesn't even consider them comrades, and reminds her of the measures he took, hearing through a
Claw Mark
 he placed on Shikamaru's nape. Shikamaru checks on Amado alone, whose analysis confirms Boruto's situation.
Sarada
 and
Mitsuki
 check on Boruto's scar, and Mitsuki asks why Code would try to kill him. Unable to tell him the truth, Boruto claims Code had poor self-control, and didn't seem to think too far ahead. Sarada is concerned he'll be targeted as he's fully
Ōtsutsuki
 now. Sasuke arrives, adding he shouldn't go anywhere alone. He also determines that since Kawaki can challenge Code, he'll want his power limiters lifted, so he'll target Amado. Shikamaru gets rough with Amado, asking why he restored Kawaki's Kāma on his own and without his consent. Amado says Kawaki loathes Kāma and would never consent, but wanted power to protect Naruto nonetheless. The Kāma's manifestation required Kawaki's will, so it ultimately is something he wanted, and points out Shikamaru is alive because of it. Unwilling to let him dodge the question, he asks why he's so obsessed with Kawaki's Kāma. Code emerges from the Claw Mark on Shikamaru. Ada think the conversation was just getting interesting. Code slams Shikamaru at the wall and holds Amado by the throat. He orders Amado to lift his power limiters, and Amado says his intrusion will be instantly
detected
. Code surprises him by knowing all it takes is for Amado to look him in the eyes and issue a command. Ino detects Code and
contacts
 Shikamaru. He tells her to inform Naruto, but not to send anyone yet, Code came because it's just them, asks her to keep monitoring them, and wait for his signal. He
paralyses
 Code, who can still wiggle his fingers enough to kill Amado. Shikamaru reveals he was aware of Code's Claw Mark on him, and commands a cyborg in Amado's lab to awake revealing a new
Delta
 model, reprogrammed to protect
Konoha
. Shikamaru orders her to attack Code. She pins him against a wall with her leg. Shikamaru reveals he baited Code into coming. He spots Code reaching into a Claw Mark, and forces his hand out to stop him from escaping. Code says he's not escaping, and pulls Ada through, shocking Amado.