This technique combines
Naruto Uzumaki
's
Wind Release: Rasenshuriken
 with
Sasuke Uchiha
's
Blaze Release: Kagutsuchi
 along with
their

variants
. Because the wind to flame ratio is perfectly balanced, the flames are greatly enhanced, causing whatever is struck by this technique to be enveloped in a swirling mass of black flames.

Usage

When first used, the large-scale version of this technique combined Naruto's Wind Release: Ultra-Big Ball Rasenshuriken and the arrow of Sasuke's Blaze Release: Susanoo Kagutsuchi when they collided in mid-air, creating something reminiscent of a pin-wheel. A smaller-scale version of this technique combined a normal Rasenshuriken and black flames manipulated with Kagutsuchi to form a flaming pinwheel. When the technique made contact with the target, they were launched backwards and likewise engulfed in the black flames.

Trivia

This technique was named by
Minato Namikaze
, however, he quickly admitted that the name didn't sound very good.

The fact that this technique is referred to as
Scorch Release
 is not because it is a
kekkei genkai
, but presumably because the basic elements fire and wind make up the actual advanced nature transformation of Scorch Release.

Referring to the original use of this technique,
Tobirama Senju
 noted that he had never seen such a Kagutsuchi before, and that this technique had the same chakra ratio from both its parent techniques, which he noted was something tough to achieve, even for an experienced duo.
 This was later attributed to Sasuke's use of the
Sharingan
 to perfectly match his chakra ratio to Naruto's.

Unlike the Rasenshuriken, the small-scale version of this technique doesn't cause cellular damage to either user's arms.

In
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 4
, the jutsu works differently when used in story mode, circling around the Ten-Tails, creating a vortex around it. It also maintained the countless small attacks of the wind chakra. Naruto and Sasuke are also able to use it when in a combined awakening, in this case, the jutsu is called "Blaze Release: Rasenshuriken".

References