A
Scroll of Seals
 (
封印の書
,
Fūin no Sho
) is a
scroll
 containing instructions about how to perform various dangerous
jutsu
.
 When certain types of jutsu were deemed
forbidden
 following the end of the
Warring States Period
,
 the
First Hokage
 placed the information about these jutsu within the Scroll of Seals.
 The scrolls were subsequently stored at the
Hokage Residence
, unavailable to be read by anyone but the
Hokage
.

Naruto Uzumaki
 was tricked into stealing a Scroll of Seals by
Mizuki
, who told Naruto that he'd be able to graduate from the
Academy
 if he could learn one of the jutsu contained within the scroll. In truth, Mizuki planned to use Naruto as a scapegoat: once Naruto was in possession of the scroll, he would kill Naruto, hide the body, and take the scroll for himself, with the rest of the village believing that Naruto fled with it for some ill purpose. After Naruto was informed of Mizuki's plan by
Iruka Umino
, he defeated Mizuki with the only jutsu from the scroll he had time to learn, the
Multiple Shadow Clone Technique
.

Mizuki stated he wanted to use the scroll to gain power, of a scale that he likens to the
jinchūriki
 of the
Nine-Tails
,
 and in the novelisation, he was confident that he could gain great power through the scroll, enough to shake the heavens.
 In the anime, the
Fifth Hokage
 cast doubt on this, as she did not believe that Mizuki, who was only a
chūnin
, would be able to perform any of the jutsu contained in the Scroll of Seals. She found it more likely that he intended to give the scroll to
Orochimaru
.

Tsubaki
 learned of Mizuki's plot, but withheld it from the village authorities in a vain hope that Mizuki would see the error of his ways, and in fear of the severe consequences of Mizuki's transgression;
Pakkun
 noted that her silence would label her as an accomplice by inaction.

Trivia

In the anime,
Tsukune
 tried to steal the scroll the same way as Naruto did. Despite the apparent success, the scroll turned out to be a fake left by the
Sixth Hokage
.

In the anime, when
Boruto Uzumaki
 acted overly confident believing that he awakened the
Byakugan
, Naruto feared he might have stolen the Scroll of Seals, before Boruto revealing that he doesn't even know what the Scroll of Seals is, and his belief that anyone who would steal it is a terrible person, which Naruto awkwardly agrees with.
 In the novelisation, when Boruto questions it, he refers to its name in katakana (フーインノショ) instead of its typical kanji.

References