This article is about the fūinjutsu. For the episode of the same name, see
Sealing Technique: Phantom Dragons Nine Consuming Seals
.

The
Sealing Technique: Phantom Dragons Nine Consuming Seals
 is a technique that was used by
Pain
 and the other members of
Akatsuki
 to forcibly seal a
tailed beast

 or to extract a still-living
jinchūriki
's tailed beast chakra into the
Demonic Statue of the Outer Path
. The technique took three full days to complete if nine of the Akatsuki members were present.
Zetsu
 stated that if there are fewer people to perform the technique, it would take a while longer.

To prepare for the technique, Pain would summon the Demonic Statue, after which each member would then stand on one of its fingertips, corresponding to their specific ring finger. When performed, this technique caused the bit to fall out of the mouth of the statue. Each of the Akatsuki members would then concentrate, causing the kanji of their rings to appear on the nail of the finger they were standing on. Nine dragon-like effigies then poured from the statue's mouth, surrounded the captured host, and painfully removed the tailed beast from them. In the case of an unsealed tailed beast, the same thing happened to the beast itself, and still took as much time as if it were sealed. After the process was complete, the beast was sealed within the statue, and one of the statue's nine eyes opened. The host would die due to the removal of their tailed beast. There is a numerical order, with the
Nine-Tails
 needing be sealed last, or the statue would shatter.

However, with Nagato now dead,
Tobi
 claimed that they would need a new pawn to synchronise with the Demonic Statue in order to seal the
Eight-Tails
 and the Nine-Tails.
 Though Nagato intended to use it for peace in the form of a weapon of mass destruction to keep governments in line, the technique was created for
Madara Uchiha
's
Eye of the Moon Plan
, as Obito was tasked with ensuring that the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path and the tailed beasts would become the
Ten-Tails
 once more.

See Also

Summoning: Demonic Statue of the Outer Path

Tail Releasing Method

Tailed Beast Removal Technique

References