The
Second Division
 (
第二部隊
,
Daini Butai
,
Viz:
 Second Company), also known as the
Short-Range Battle Division
 (
戦闘近距離部隊
,
Sentō Kinkyori Butai
,
English TV:
 Close-Range Battle Unit), was a battalion in the
Allied Shinobi Forces
 led by
Kitsuchi
 of
Iwagakure
, formed in preparation for the
Fourth Shinobi World War
.

Composition

The Second Division is composed of several thousands of shinobi and samurai alike who mainly focus on short-range combat. According to
Shikamaru Nara
 in the anime, it is used as the regiment that has to fight at the war's front lines.

History






The Second Division unearths parts of the White Zetsu Army.



Upon its formation, the Second Division is mobilised to the northern edge of the
Land of Lightning
's peninsula. When the
Intelligence Division
 detects the
White Zetsu Army
 moving underground, the Second Division is ordered to intercept them. The Division, with some reinforcements from the
Fifth Division
, sets up position and waits for the enemy forces to come near. Once the Zetsu are in range, Kitsuchi and
Kurotsuchi

unearth
 thousands of Zetsu, which the Allies then barrage with attacks.

Because of the Zetsu's durability and their ability to drain the Division member's
chakra
, the battle soon becomes one of attrition. Headquarters eventually informs them that thousands of additional Zetsu have slipped by underground.
 Headquarters soon contacts them again with new orders: to assist the
First Division
 by attacking their enemies from behind. Kitsuchi leads part of his Division to the First Division's location, leaving the rest behind to deal with the remaining Zetsu.






The supporting part of the Second Division is confronted by the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path.



As night falls,
Tobi
 appears on the battlefield and summons the
Demonic Statue of the Outer Path
. As the statue rampages on the field, Kitsuchi tries to stop it by using
Earth Release: Sandwich Technique
, however it failed and the statue continues on with its rampaging. Tobi then escapes with the Benihisago and the Kohaku no Jōhei, as well as the statue. As night falls the forces fell back.

In Kitsuchi's absence, the Second Division sets up a defensive line around the
Logistical Support and Medical Division
's station. As night falls and there is a lull in attacks from the opposing side, tired and injured shinobi are moved to the medical compound to recuperate.






Naruto arrives to aid the Second Division.



There were some members of White Zetsu Army that infiltrated their ranks, but thanks to
Naruto Uzumaki
's ability to
sense negative emotions
, they managed to identify and defeat some of them.

From later reports at headquarters, the Second Division was able to successfully annihilate their opponents and were instructed to assist
Naruto
 and
Killer B
 once they were finished. Eventually, the division meets up with the rest of the Allied Shinobi Forces to fight against the
Ten-Tails
 under the command of
Madara Uchiha
 and
Obito Uchiha
.

References