The Sannin face off against Hanzō during the Second Shinobi World War.



The
Second Shinobi World War
 (
第二次忍界大戦
,
Dainiji Ninkai Taisen
,
English TV:
 Second Great Ninja War) was the second of four great wars involving the majority of the shinobi villages and countries. Not much is known about the politics of this era, but there were known conflicts between
Konohagakure
, led by the
Third Hokage
,
Sunagakure
, likely led by the
Third Kazekage
,
Amegakure
, led by
Hanzō of the Salamander
, and
Iwagakure
, presumably led by the
Third Tsuchikage
. The majority of the fighting seems to have taken place in minor countries like Amegakure, leaving them devastated. The eventual outcome of the war seems to have been in favour of Konoha.
Nagato
 referred to it as a war Konoha started.

Background

The
First Shinobi World War
 ended with an armistice treaty, but also left the
Five Great Shinobi Countries
 seriously wounded. The treaty led to a period of peace, but after about twenty years, the economic disparity between the countries had become a serious problem. The nations began to form factions, and under the pretext of expending fair rights, the countries started using military force to expand their territories. Thus, a world war started.

Effects

As with all wars, the Second Shinobi World War brought forth many heroes and took even more lives. It was during this war that the legendary "
Sannin
" (
伝説の三忍
,
Densetsu no Sannin
,
literally meaning:
 Legendary Three Ninja) rose to fame and received their nickname from Hanzō during a skirmish with Amegakure.
Tsunade
 in particular became famous as the world's greatest
medical-nin
 while successfully countering all of
Chiyo
's poisons. Her ideas and skills revolutionised shinobi squads to include
medical-nin
 she trained personally, increasing mission success and survival rates, a system that remains in place in the present. She is thus cited as having made great contributions to Konoha's victory as well as the current system of all medical-nin. It is also likely that this war was where
Sakumo Hatake
 made his name as "Konoha's White Fang" (
木ノ葉の白い牙
,
Konoha no Shiroi Kiba
).

On the other side, it was the war where Tsunade lost her lover,
Dan Katō
, leaving her with an extreme case of
hæmophobia
. It was also during this war that
Sasori's

parents
 died, an event that eventually made him leave his village and join the Akatsuki later. At the same time, Chiyo swore vengeance against Sakumo for killing Sasori's parents. It is also likely that it was during this war that Sakumo Hatake would fail a mission vital to Konoha's war effort. Subsequentially, he was ostracised and ultimately committed suicide: an action that would shape his son's character for years. The
Ame Orphans
 lost their parents during this war, leading
Jiraiya
 to take care of them for a while, claiming it was the least he could do. One of the orphans,
Nagato
, would come to desire an end to war because of his experiences from this war, a purpose he used
Akatsuki
 for.

Trivia

The timespan between the First and Second Shinobi World War mirrors the real-life First and Second World War.
World War I
 was ended with armistice, before a treaty was finally signed. However, within twenty years after the signing of the treaty,
World War II
 would begin.

In the anime, the Sannin's actions during this war are incorrectly stated to have occurred during the
Third Shinobi World War
.
 A later
episode
 corrected this error. This error is also repeated in the official Naruto website.

During the war, the
Land of the Sky
 emerged to challenge the
Five Great Shinobi Countries
, only to be destroyed.

References