Upon forming the necessary
hand seals
, either immediately before or after being struck by an attack, the user's body will regenerate to heal all recent injuries and lost anatomy in seconds, leaving no lingering traces of said wounds.
 This technique can also negate the effects of
venom
 on the user's body.

With the aid of a special core made from
Scientific Ninja Tools
, the technique can be augmented to activate instantly and even restore the person from the most maiming of damage, including getting their head obliterated, restoring them to their original form within seconds. The core can be moved around the body via hand seals, lowering the chances of its destruction.
 The negative effect of using the core, should it be removed as the body became modified to depend on it for stability, the user's body will mutate uncontrollably.

While stated to possess a regenerative ability in the manga, Victor's usage was never shown until the anime.
 Similar to Boro's usage, Victor is capable of regenerating limbs and his head. If a limb is severed, Victor can manipulate the limb or use his blood as tendrils to retrieve and immediately reattach it.
 However, Victor's regeneration is not perfect as it is not capable of keeping up with
inextinguishable Fire Release techniques
.
 Also, since Victor utilised a
cursed seal
 to extend his life, prolonged usage of this technique would accelerate Victor's decline in health, as his over-usage led to his permanent loss of his right eye and leg and likewise leaves him extremely drained.

The efficiency of this technique depends on the user's skills, as neither Victor nor Orochimaru required hand seals to perform it, but while Victor's usage was considered imperfect, Orochimaru's did not show such flaws. While Boro seems to be devoid of the flaws that Victor had, he was dependent on the core within his body to stabilise his regenerative powers, and he seemingly required to perform seals to purge the poison out of his body.

Trivia

Several sources referred to this technique as "Self-Regeneration Technique" (
自己再生術
,
Jiko Saiseijutsu
). Whether it is proper name or just a description of the type of technique is still unclear.

While this technique does not regenerate clothing, in the anime when Victor's head was bitten off by one of Orochimaru's snakes, his eyepatch was included on his new head.

In the anime, Boro claimed to his
followers
 that he gained this power (regarding it as an "indestructible body") from a
"God"
 he met.

See Also

Body Revival Technique

Creation Rebirth

Medical Water Release: Jellyfish

Ultra-Fast Regeneration Technique

Yin Healing Wound Destruction

References