The
Senju Clan
 (
千手一族
,
Senju Ichizoku
) was one of the
clans
 responsible for founding the first shinobi village:
Konohagakure
 — the other being their rival
Uchiha Clan
. Although the clan itself no longer appears to exist as a group, the Senju continue to influence Konoha's politics through their philosophy of the
Will of Fire
 and the corresponding interpretation of the role of the
Hokage
 position. As such, three Senju have achieved the position of Hokage.

Abilities

As descendants of
Asura Ōtsutsuki
, the Senju inherited his powerful life force and chakra, and through
Hashirama Senju
 eventually manifested as
Wood Release
. It was thought that the Senju's strength was based in love.
 Compared to other shinobi clans, the Senju didn't specialise in just one area, instead mastering
ninjutsu
,
taijutsu
, and
genjutsu
 to give themselves a wide variety of skills to combat their enemies. Due to this they acquired their name, "Senju" (
千手
,
literally meaning:
 "a thousand skills", "a thousand hands"), in reference to their being "the clan with a thousand skills" (
「千の手を持つ一族」
,
"sen no te o motsu ichizoku"
).
 It is due to this they were the
Uchiha Clan
's primary rivals, and ultimately crushed their will to fight by the end of the
Warring States Period
.

History






The Uzumaki and Senju clans.



The Senju are distant relatives of the
Uzumaki Clan
, and for that reason the two clans remained close allies throughout the years. Members at times married between clans, as with
Hashirama Senju
 and
Mito Uzumaki
,
 and the Uzumaki would provide
fūinjutsu
 whenever the Senju needed one performed. More distantly, the Senju are also related to the
Uchiha Clan
, who descend from Hagoromo's elder son,
Indra
. Whereas Indra believed peace could be achieved through power, Asura believed peace could be achieved through love, a difference of mindset that caused them to battle over inheritance to the Sage's ways during their lifetimes. Their battle continued through the generations to their descendants, though neither the Senju nor the Uchiha remembered this reason for their conflict.






The Uchiha vs. the Senju.



By the time of the
Warring States Period
, the Senju and Uchiha had emerged as the strongest
shinobi
 clans in the world. When one of the fledgling countries of the era would hire the Senju to fight in their wars, the opposing side would hire the Uchiha. The constant warfare between their clans only fuelled their hatred, with all Senju owing the death of a loved one to an Uchiha and vice versa. But centuries of conflict began to wear on members of the clan; Hashirama Senju and
Madara Uchiha
 met as children and became friends, bonding over their disapproval of the combat and death that they and their younger brothers were constantly subjected to and dreaming of a time when children wouldn't need to fight. Unable to do anything about the world at their age, Madara turned away from their dreams.






The Senju Clan under Hashirama's leadership.



Hashirama and Madara continued to face each other in battle over the coming years. In time, each became the leader of their respective clan, position that Hashirama tried to use to broker peace between them and finally achieve their childhood dreams. Despite growing interest in peace amongst the Uchiha, Madara was reluctant, opting instead to have one last contest for supremacy against the Senju.
 He was defeated, but rather than kill Madara, Hashirama offered to give up his own life if it would stop the fighting. Madara was moved by the gesture and agreed to peace. Their unified clans made a pact with the
Land of Fire
 to create a
hidden village
 within its borders, what would become
Konohagakure
. Other clans settled in Konoha to share their peace and Konoha's model was adopted across the shinobi world.

The villagers of Konoha selected Hashirama to be their First
Hokage
, Konoha's leader. Madara interpreted this as the first step in the Senju's supremacy over the Uchiha, and for that reason left the village in protest. Hashirama had no intention of the Senju being left in charge and in fact believed it would be best if all Konoha's villagers, the Senju and Uchiha included, focused on Konoha's interests rather than their clan's.
 Despite this, Madara's fears would end up coming true: Hashirama's brother became the
Second Hokage
, his granddaughter becomes the
Fifth Hokage
, and all other Hokage have been part of a tree of student–teacher relationships that trace back to Hashirama.






Senju Park in Konoha.



It isn't clear if the Senju still formally exist as a clan, as no living Konoha villagers are known to still bear the name.
Konoha Hiden
 suggests that they are no longer active, as
Kiba Inuzuka
 only recognises the name from history classes. Despite this, the Senju's influence continues to live on in all of Konoha's inhabitants, chiefly through the Senju's
Will of Fire
.

Leaders

Butsuma Senju
: Former Head

Hashirama Senju
: Last-known Head

Trivia

All known pre-Konoha male Senju's name end in "-ma" (
ま
), more commonly written using the kanji "間", which can refer to space or a room.

Although they owe part of their fame as the "Senju clan of the forest" (
森の千手一族
,
Mori no Senju Ichizoku
) to the
Wood Release
, Hashirama Senju was the only clan member known to be capable of utilising it.

The clan's symbol resembles a
Vajra
, both a symbol and a ritual object present in Buddhism and Hinduism. As a symbol, it represents both indestructible and irresistible force.

Given the clan name’s literal meaning, it is probable that it originated in-universe as an epithet, before eventually evolving into a surname proper.

References