The three components of senjutsu chakra.



Senjutsu
 (
仙術
,
English TV:
 Sage Jutsu,
literally meaning:
 Sage Techniques) are a specialised field of
jutsu
 that involve the use of
natural energy
. Senjutsu practitioners, known as
sages
, learn to draw natural energy inside their bodies, blending it with their own
chakra
 to create
senjutsu chakra
 (
仙術チャクラ
,
senjutsu chakura
,
English TV:
 Sage Jutsu Chakra). This chakra adds a new dimension of power to the user's techniques, while also allowing for the use of techniques that would not otherwise be possible.

Overview

Senjutsu is known to be taught at two locations:
Mount Myōboku
 and
Ryūchi Cave
. To use senjutsu, one must first learn to sense the natural energy in their surroundings and gather it inside their body. It must then be balanced with the user's own physical and spiritual energies, which make up their chakra, to create senjutsu chakra. If too little natural energy is added to the mix, senjutsu cannot be used, but gathering too much results in the user turning to stone. In the case of humans, absorbing too much natural energy first causes them to transform into an animal, be it a
toad
 for practitioners at Mount Myōboku or a
snake
 for practitioners at Ryūchi Cave. This process can be reversed if the natural energy is expelled from the person's body before they fully transform, but once the transformation is complete, it becomes permanent.

Those who are successful in this training learn to enter a state called
Sage Mode
, in which their physical parameters and
sensing
 capabilities are dramatically enhanced for as long as the mode is active. Though trainees seem to enter Sage Mode automatically during the learning process, it is possible to create senjutsu chakra without entering Sage Mode in order to store it for later.
 Whereas the use of
ninjutsu
 exhausts the user due to expending their chakra, senjutsu takes in natural energy from the outside, and thus causes the user to recover more quickly instead.
 However, senjutsu can only be used by those who already possess an enormous amount of chakra, as otherwise the natural energy would immediately overwhelm them.
 Techniques made using senjutsu chakra cannot be
nullified
 by
Truth-Seeking Balls
, and are also capable of harming the
Ten-Tails
'
jinchūriki
, whose body is immune to ninjutsu.

Generally, senjutsu can only be used by those who undergo extensive training, though there are methods of obtaining senjutsu chakra through other means:

Members of
Jūgo
's
clan
 have a
unique genetic makeup
 that causes their bodies to absorb natural energy and undergo
transformations
. However, the sudden influx of power also causes them to go berserk at times.

Orochimaru
 developed an enzyme from Jūgo's bodily fluids that is capable of replicating his power in others. This enzyme serves as the basis for his
cursed seals
, which feed on their bearer's chakra and release Orochimaru's senjutsu chakra in return.

Forms

Six Paths Senjutsu

Main article:
Six Paths Senjutsu

Six Paths Senjutsu
 is a special form of senjutsu used by
Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki
 — the Sage of Six Paths — as well as his younger brother,
Hamura
.
 Hagoromo is able to grant Six Paths Senjutsu to others, as he did with his son,
Asura
, and later with his son's
reincarnate
,
Naruto Uzumaki
. It can also be obtained by
becoming
 the
jinchūriki
 of the
Ten-Tails
, as taking in the power of the nine
tailed beasts
 is the same as obtaining the power of the Sage of Six Paths himself.

Sage Power

In the anime, the toads of Mount Myōboku are shown to have been using an ability called
Sage Power
 (
仙力
,
Senriki
) since long before Hagoromo spread chakra among
Earth
's inhabitants. By gathering natural energy into their bodies, they were able to drastically increase their strength, as well as shoot jets of water from their mouths in a manner similar to
Water Release
 techniques. Despite these ancient practitioners having no chakra with which to balance the natural energy they absorbed, using sage power appears to have carried similar risks to using senjutsu, as indicated by the petrified remains of those who failed to control it being present at the mountain. The toad
Gamamaru
 eventually taught Hagoromo to use sage power, making him the first person to use senjutsu in its modern form.

Trivia

The word senjutsu (
仙術
) uses the same hiragana (せんじゅつ) as the Japanese art of
scrying
 (
占術
), which may allude to a sage's ability to sense chakra while in Sage Mode.

In the anime, the sound of natural energy being gathered to form senjutsu chakra is the same as the one used for the healing green chakra of the
Mystical Palm Technique
.

Whereas natural energy itself is generally only perceptible to sages,
sensor types
 are able to detect senjutsu chakra normally, though it noticeably alters its owner's chakra signature.

In the
ninth
Naruto
 OVA
, use of senjutsu during the
Chūnin Exams
 is against the rules due to it giving
Naruto Uzumaki
 an unfair advantage.

The
Shikkotsu Forest
 is indicated as a place for learning senjutsu, however, no person connected to the place has demonstrated any technique that employs its use.

See Also

List of senjutsu

References