The
Senrigan
 (
千里眼
,
literally meaning:
 Clairvoyance) is a
dōjutsu
 awakened by some members of the
Ōtsutsuki Clan
, which grants vast clairvoyant abilities. Appearance-wise, it is distinguished by a bright-blue iris, a white-glowing pupil surrounded by a dark, waxing crescent shape, and a darkened sclera.

Known to have been an ability of
Shibai Ōtsutsuki
, the Senrigan was manifested by
Ada
 in her left eye after
Amado
 transplanted DNA from Shibai's remains into her.

Abilities

The Senrigan allows its bearer to project their consciousness to any location in the world in order to see and hear distant events occurring as if they are right there, something likened by Ada to being able to freely access security cameras hidden in every corner of the world. In addition to spying on present events in real time, the Senrigan allows one to browse past events, with the Senrigan wielder able to pick out individual scenes from the past to watch, starting from their current point in time, up to the moment of their own birth.
 What is more, the Senrigan's perception can even reach into other dimensions.

The Senrigan does not permit its user to view any event that happened before they were born, or to peer into the future.
 The Senrigan also cannot perceive events transpiring on a spiritual plane (e.g. the mental communication between
Boruto
 and
Momoshiki
 via
Kāma
)
 or track targets that are physically imperceptible (e.g.
Kawaki
 while shrunken via
Sukunahikona
).
 In addition, the Senrigan user will remain limited in their understanding of what they witness by the outside context and their pre-existing knowledge on/interpretation of it.

Influence

Senrigan
 (
千里眼
) is a figurative term for "
clairvoyance
" that originates from Chinese; it is also the name of a
Chinese god
 who, in legend, is said to be able to see everything in the world. The kanji mean "thousand
li
 eye(s)" when translated individually, with 1000 Chinese li roughly equalling 300 mi or 500 km, though a thousand li idiomatically denotes any vast distance. As such, it can also be translated as "farseeing eye(s)" or, more literally, "eye(s) seeing a thousand miles/leagues".

References