This article is about the team.  For other uses, see
Kanchi (disambiguation)
.

The
Sensor Division
 (
感知部隊
,
Kanchi Butai
) was comprised of ninja with high
sensory
 abilities in the
Allied Shinobi Forces
 to aid in the war against
Akatsuki
.

History

Almost immediately after this respective division's formation, during a short introduction to one another,
Ao
 reassures a nervous
C
 that despite this being his first war, he should stay on task at all times as their role could have a significant impact on the eventual outcome.
 Receiving the necessary confirmation concerning their organisation, C and a significant contingent of the Sensor Division mobilises alongside the majority of the
Allied Shinobi Forces
, as Ao remains behind in order to complete the construction of a substantial
detection barrier
 assisted by
Inoichi Yamanaka
 of the
Intelligence Division
.






Sensor Division's Sensing Water Sphere.



Retrieving vital details reported by the recently deceased
Muta Aburame
 of the
Infiltration and Reconnaissance Party
, Ao widens the detection range of the previously fabricated barrier by directing it downwards, thus exposing the obscured underground movements of the
White Zetsu Army
 and alerting the Allied Shinobi Forces to their devious intentions.
 After contact from the
Fourth Division
 reveals the sudden emergence of four
powerful
 adversaries, Ao concludes that the opposition must possess an impressive
individual
, as they were able to avoid the observations of the Sensor Division. Due to the sheer volume of opponents concurrently approaching the
First Division
, it becomes increasingly difficult for members to distinguish between specific enemies, so Ao delegates the task of large-scale detection to another, while he filters out the entirety of the
White Zetsu Army
. In doing this, Ao ascertains that far too many infamous
reincarnated
 shinobi are headed towards
Darui
, including
two individuals
 with enormous
chakra
 reserves tainted by the
Nine-Tails
' chakra.

By the time of the revival of the
Ten-Tails
, the Alliance's HQ was attacked by a
Tailed Beast Ball
 in an attempt to destroy the "head" of the Alliance. With the attack, the central sensing system was presumably destroyed as well.
 Ao was the only survivor, losing two limbs.

References