The
Shadow Imitation Technique
 is the signature technique of the
Nara clan
.

Overview

The user manipulates their shadow across a surface to merge it with a target or targets' shadow. The user can stretch their shadow however they wish in order to accomplish this goal, but they are limited by their shadow's surface area; if a target can move far enough away from the Shadow Imitation's user, they are theoretically safe from it. But there are ways around this: the user's shadow can freely move within other shadows, extending its range;

Shikamaru Nara
 frequently uses
flash bombs
, either to briefly extend his own shadow or to extend his targets' shadows.

Shikamaru Hiden
 clarifies that a user must have a shadow to manipulate, and so the Shadow Imitation cannot be used in utter darkness.

Once a user merges their shadow with a target's, the target cannot move on their own other than to talk. The only movements they are able to make are those that the user makes: if the user walks forward, the target walks forward; if the user raises their right hand, the target raises their right hand.
 Nara tend to wear their
shuriken
 holsters in atypical locations so that, when they reach for and throw shuriken, their targets will reach for and throw nothing.
 Although most often used against opponents, the Shadow Imitation Technique can be used to save allies, freezing them in physically impossible positions so that they won't trigger booby traps
 or causing them to cling to sheer surfaces with no means of support.
 At times, the Shadow Imitation's mimicry is two-way, as if a third-party forces the target to make a move, the user will be forced to make the same move.

Keeping a target restrained requires a great deal of
chakra
, making it difficult to maintain the Shadow Imitation for long periods of time; in Part II, Shikamaru can only maintain it for five minute intervals.
 With repeated use or against multiple targets, the duration of the binding becomes shorter.
 If a target is strong enough or if the user is weakened enough, targets can resist and even overpower the Shadow Imitation's control. When that happens, Nara will inevitably use one of their other techniques, such as the
Shadow–Neck Binding Technique
 or
Shadow Sewing Technique
.

The Shadow Imitation Technique was previously known as the "Leaf Secret: Shadow Bind Technique" (
木ノ葉秘伝・影縛りの術
,
Konoha Hiden: Kageshibari no Jutsu
,
literally meaning:
 Tree Leaf Secret: Shadow Bind Technique), which was only capable of restricting targets' movements.
 The imitation aspect was apparently not added until after
Orochimaru
 defected from
Konohagakure
, as his
Otogakure
 invaders did not know about it prior to the
Konoha Crush
.

Shikaku Nara
 still uses the old name sometimes.
 Young Nara are initially only taught the Shadow Bind, with the Shadow Imitation not being learned until later; in the anime, being able to use the Shadow Imitation is considered a
rite of passage
 within the Nara clan.

Trivia

The Shadow Imitation Technique was originally created as a way to capture deer for their antlers.

A distinct sound can often be heard as indication of the technique successfully binding the user's shadow to the target's own.

On occasion, Shikamaru will say the name of the technique followed by "complete", to signify that he was successful in capturing his opponent.

In the novelisation of
Boruto: Naruto the Movie
, it is the Shadow Bind Technique - not the Shadow Imitation - that is usable through the
Shinobi Gauntlet
.

In the anime,
Akita Inuzuka
 could perform this technique through the
Shinobi Gauntlet
.

In the English dub of the anime,
Sakon
 states that he mastered this technique.

In the anime,
Inojin Yamanaka
 tricked
Metal Lee
 into believing that his
ink snakes
 were this technique.

In the
Naruto: Clash of Ninja
 series, Kakashi can perform this technique by copying it with his
Sharingan
.

In
Naruto: Path of the Ninja 2
, using this technique on multiple opponents at once gives it the name "Eight Way Shadow Imitation Technique".

References