This article is about the blastsword. For the OVA character, see
Shibuki
.

The
Shibuki
 (
飛沫
,
literally meaning:
 Splash) is one of the mystical
swords
 of the
Seven Swordsmen of the Mist
, that has been passed down from generation to generation amongst the group's members since the
First Mizukage
's era.

Overview

The blade utilises various
explosive tags
, contained within a substantial scroll, in order to incorporate explosions into the user's own
swordsmanship
, earning it the title of "
blastsword
" (
爆刀
,
bakutō
). The sword itself features two distinct sides, with a narrow cutting edge located down the entirety of one length and a wide platform section on the other. The aforementioned scroll unrolls along this latter side, sliding downwards and resting atop its surface to form an individual segment comprised from numerous explosive tags, which separates from the remainder upon detonation. Only once the desired opponent comes into contact with the platform do the explosive tags finally ignite and then detach, providing a small opportunity for the user to escape the devastating blast radius, while simultaneously compensating for any resultant recoil. The sword is seemingly able to "reload" another segment of tags onto the platform automatically after each strike.

Shibuki was eventually lost to Kirigakure alongside five other blades. The sword is first seen when a
reincarnated

Mangetsu Hōzuki
 summons it from a scroll, where it is then returned to its respective wielder,
Jinpachi Munashi
, and last seen when Jinpachi is sealed. Some time after the war, Shibuki was returned to Kirigakure.
 In the anime, a rebellious group proclaiming themselves the
New Seven Ninja Swordsmen
 stole the seven blades to start a revolution against the modernisation and peaceful era of Kirigakure, determined to return to the days of the "Bloody Mist".
Ichirōta Oniyuzu
 took up Shibuki.
 Soon after, he and his team was defeated, allowing the village to reclaim the sword.

Utilised Techniques

Blastsword Technique: Blasting Bridle Repeating Death

References