Shibi Aburame
 (
油女シビ
,
Aburame Shibi
) — "
Gen
" (
ゲン
,
Gen
) in some pieces of
Naruto
 media — is a
jōnin
, and the head of
Konohagakure
's
Aburame clan
.

Background

When
Shikuro Aburame
 died, Shibi became the guardian of his son
Torune
. During this time together, Torune and Shibi's son
Shino
 formed a sibling relationship.
Danzō Shimura
 would confront Shibi on one occasion expressing his desire to recruit another young member of the insect-using clan for
Root
, expressing interest in Shino. Shibi tried to diffuse the situation by asking to talk with the Third Hokage, not wanting to give up his son, however, Danzō noted that he already had full authority to take Shino. Before making Shino's recruiting official, Torune offered himself, not wanting his childhood friend to live such a lonely life. He was able to appeal to Danzō by revealing who his father was.

Personality

Shibi is just as stoic and silent as (if not even more so than) his son. He is described as a "
self-possessed figure, and the pride of Aburame
".
 Like his son, he is cautious by nature and also believes in never underestimating an opponent, no matter how small or weak they may appear. Despite his stoic personality, he is shown to care deeply for his son as shown when he tried whatever he could to prevent him from being recruited as a member of Root and was the first to aid him when he was poisoned during his fight with
Kankurō
.

Appearance






Shibi's full appearance.



Shibi, like all members of his clan, has his eyes obscured by dark glasses which feature a single tassel hanging down from one-side. He has very spiky short black hair and a moustache. He typically wears a high collared outfit, while carrying a gourd on his back that is used for holding more
kikaichū
. He also tends to keep his hands in his pockets a lot, another trait he and his son share.

During the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, Shibi is now sporting a goatee and wears a hooded variant of his regular high collared outfit; similar to the one worn by his son. He also wears the
Allied Shinobi Forces
' forehead protector.

Abilities






Shibi using his kikaichū.



Considered the "
pride of Aburame
",
 and being a
jōnin
, Shibi is undoubtedly a powerful shinobi. As an Aburame, he lives in coexistence with a special breed of insects, the kikaichū, which he can use to
cover the enemy
 and drain their chakra.
 He could also use the insects to suck out
poison
, as seen when he rescued his son Shino from the poison
Kankurō
 used on him.
 Further attesting to his skills, he was even put in charge of a team tasked with stopping Naruto from escaping from the Island Turtle during the
Fourth Shinobi World War
.

Part I

Konoha Crush

Main article:
Konoha Crush

During the
Konoha Crush
, Shibi used his kikaichū to draw out the poison that afflicted his son's body.
 Following the invasion, he attended the
Third Hokage
's funeral.

Sasuke Recovery Mission

Main article:
Sasuke Recovery Mission

Shibi went on a mission with his son around the time
Sasuke
 defected from Konoha.

Part II

Pain's Assault

Main article:
Pain's Assault






The Aburame confront Konan.



Over the course of
Pain's assault
 on Konoha, Shibi joins
Muta
, his son and another unnamed member of his clan in confronting
Konan
. They use their
kikaichū
 to eat the paper that Konan had wrapped several shinobi in while
Katsuyu
 healed them. He then advises his son to give it everything he's got.
 The anime expands on this battle and the Aburame can be seen launching a surprise overhead assault on her, however this turns out to be just a
clone
. As they look up they realise that they are surrounded by clones of Konan who descend on them. Shibi and his clansmen send their bugs to destroy the clones who, to their surprise, detonate. Shibi tells his son to get away after realising that
explosive tags
 had been placed in the clones. As they narrowly escape the explosion, Konan, who had drenched herself in water to counter the effects of fire and mixed herself in with the clones can be seen walking out of the flames. Later, after the invasion's conclusion, he returned to the devastated village in order to celebrate
Naruto Uzumaki
's defeat of
Pain
.

Fourth Shinobi World War: Countdown

Main article:
Fourth Shinobi World War: Countdown

In the anime, Shibi is present at the war council meeting that
Tsunade
 convenes.

Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation

Main article:
Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation






Shibi and the others attempt to stop Naruto from leaving.



During the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, Shibi was sent to the
Island Turtle
 alongside several other
Konohagakure
 shinobi, to ensure that Naruto remained within the confines of his training room. When Naruto attempted to leave the temple, Shibi tried to convince him to stop by proposing that they talk once he had returned, however,
Iruka
 interjected that he would do it instead.

In spite of his conviction and the assistance that he provided to Iruka's fictitious story, by asserting that
Yamato
's absence was due to his
abilities
 being required elsewhere, Shibi's attempt to deceive Naruto ends in failure and results in the violent eviction of his entire team from the temple. Now outside, Shibi reluctantly allows Iruka to describe a truthful account of current events but this too fails, causing Shibi to disperse his
kikaichū
 in order to stop Naruto. However, after the
chakra
 of the
Nine-Tailed Demon Fox
 proves too much for his bugs, Shibi orders
Temui
 to alert the Barrier Squads in the area, while everyone else continues with the pursuit.

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Main article:
Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Ultimately, Shibi, along with Iruka and the rest of the world, were freed from the
Infinite Tsukuyomi
 genjutsu by Naruto and Sasuke after they ended the war. He later attended the mass funeral held in Konoha.

In Other Media

Movies

Naruto Shippūden the Movie: The Lost Tower

Main article:
Naruto Shippūden the Movie: The Lost Tower






Shibi as depicted in the movie.



Shibi was assigned to a team with
Minato Namikaze
 and
Chōza Akimichi
 to intervene in the crisis that was occurring in
Rōran
, where a Konoha
missing-nin
 from the future called
Mukade
 was building a Puppet Army using the power of the
Ryūmyaku
 — an ancient chakra flow deep underground the city, and plans to change the future to his favour, conquering the
Five Great Shinobi Countries
. Minato asks the
Third Hokage
's permission to bring his student,
Kakashi Hatake
, and the Hokage agrees. During the mission, Shibi used his kikaichū to attack the giant puppet Mukade had created, though the insects were unable to devour all the chakra supplied to the puppets with the Ryūmyaku.

Video Games

Shibi Aburame is a playable character in the following video games:

Game name
Japanese release
English release
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Blazing
14 July 2016
24 August 2016
Naruto: Shinobi Collection Shippū Ranbu
27 July 2015

Trivia

According to the databook(s):

His favourite phrase is
"Even a tiny insect has half a soul"
 (
一寸の虫にも五分の魂
,
Issun no mushi ni mo gobu no tamashii
).

In an
omake
 for
Naruto: Shippūden

episode 173
, Shibi is suggested to be just as forgettable as his son is; the
Ino–Shika–Chō
 invites him to lunch, but quickly forget that they did so, remembering only that they invited
someone
. When Shibi arrives at the restaurant, the waiter also forgets him, causing him to wait two hours for his order.

References