Shigure
 (
シグレ
) was a
genin
 from
Amegakure
 and a member of
Team Shigure
.

Personality

He has been described as arrogant, presumptuous, and active. A prime example of his arrogance was his extreme underestimation of Gaara's skills, believing that Gaara was no match for him. He also seemed to hold a deep respect for his village as seen when Gaara talked down to Amegakure. He became angry at Gaara's remarks but was able to stay calm and collected until an actual battle broke out and lunged at Gaara.

Appearance

Shigure had short spiky brown hair with a strip of gauze covering his forehead and his mouth partly stitched on the right side. He also had two scars running up his cheek, one of which had blinded his right eye, causing him to constantly keep it closed. He carried an oxygen tank and a sheath for his umbrellas on his back.

Abilities

According to Akamaru's reaction, he had very strong chakra.
 He could use his
umbrellas
 to
shoot senbon
 from above to kill his enemy. The senbon are controlled by Shigure's
chakra
, leaving no place to escape the technique.
 He also seems to be confident in
close-range combat
, as he rushed towards
Gaara
 in a final attempt to bring him down.

Part I

Chūnin Exams

Main article:
Chūnin Exams






Shigure caught by Gaara.



Having passed the first stage of the
Chūnin Exams
, Shigure proceeded onto the second phase. Soon after the exam began, Shigure and his team confronted the
Three Sand Siblings
. Shigure sought Gaara's scroll and underestimated his power. Shigure attempted to use his
Senbon Shower
 technique but Gaara's
sand
 protected him. Gaara then took the opportunity to confine Shigure and his team using the
Sand Binding Coffin
. Gaara then crushed the Ame genin, killing them.

In Other Media

Video Games

In
Naruto Mobile
, Shigure is a constant rival of the main characters.

Trivia






Shigure's original design (centre).



Shigure was originally designed as a large, heavyset man with a moustache.
Masashi Kishimoto
 suspected he would need to change the design, but stuck with until his editors forced him to, claiming the first draft of Shigure "didn't make the reader's heart throb".

"Shigure" (
時雨
) means "drizzle" and can also refer to the frequent showers in late autumn or early winter.

Shigure and one of his teammates appear in
Naruto: Shippūden
 episode 183 alongside several other notable characters.

References