"
Shikadai's Decision
" (
シカダイの決断
,
Shikadai no Ketsudan
) is episode 97 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Team 10
 captures a bandit group at a wind power plant. One of the assailants drops an explosive tag when
Shikadai
 hurries to catch him himself, damaging part of the structure.
Inojin
 and
Chōchō
 comment on Shikadai being a bit off and impatient. A month prior,
Temari
 is invited to attend a banquet where important
Land of Wind
 figures will meet.
Enchū
 discusses politics and appearances with
Shikamaru
, and presses on the need of Shikadai's improvement with the Nara's shadow jutsu, which Shikadai overhears. After he leaves, Shikadai asks his father why he puts up with Enchū, who in turn explains they've been indebted to the clan elder since
Shikaku
's time. In the present, Shikadai's genin friends discuss his struggles at the
Lightning Burger
.
Boruto
 questions why Shikadai doesn't use
Wind Release
 any more, and Shikadai and
Denki
 relate to feeling under pressure due to family affairs. Team 10 is left on standby regarding an upcoming delegation from the Land of Wind to visit a power plant like the one they've defended.
 Later that day, Shikadai learns his team was put on standby because of a request put in by Enchū, who wants to prevent Shikadai from jeopardising the clan's reputation, and instead counsels him to get into politics. Enchū agrees to stop meddling with Shikamaru if Shikadai agrees to his proposal. When Shikadai brings it up with his family, Temari is surprised by it, but Shikamaru supports him, on the condition he's doing that for himself. Shikadai informs
Moegi
 and his friends about his decision. Shikadai visits the wind power plant he protected with Denki, who helps maintain their systems. Shikadai informs Denki of his intended career change, but before they can discuss it, an issue arises with one of the batteries due to the structure damage. While Denki tries fixing the problem, he tells Shikadai how he intends to use his situation to improve the village. When Denki's solution doesn't work, he speculates there must be a cut wire. One of the windmill turbines connected to the affected battery can resolve the situation, so Shikadai uses Wind Release to turn it, allowing Denki to fix the issue. A part of the ceiling collapses, but Shikadai saves Denki with his
Shadow Imitation Technique
. Shikadai decides he won't be a politician after all. He informs his parents, and asks Temari to teach him proper Wind Release. Enchū arrives with forms for Shikadai to sign, but he tells him he changed his mind. Enchū is done with them. Later, at the Lightning Burger, Shikadai informs his friends about his change of mind for not becoming a politician, much to their surprise.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Shikadai Nara
Kensho Ono
小野 賢章
Ono Kenshō
Shikamaru Nara
Shotaro Morikubo
森久保 祥太郎
Morikubo Shōtarō
Temari Nara
Romi Park
朴 璐美
Paku Romi
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Inojin Yamanaka
Atsushi Abe
阿部 敦
Abe Atsushi
Chōchō Akimichi
Ryoko Shiraishi
白石 涼子
Shiraishi Ryōko
Iwabee Yuino
Shinya Hamazoe
浜添 伸也
Hamazoe Shin'ya
Denki Kaminarimon
Chihiro Ikki
一木 千洋
Ikki Chihiro
Moegi Kazamatsuri
Noriko Shitaya
下屋 則子
Shitaya Noriko
Enchū Nara
Goro Sanada
真田 五郎
Sanada Gorō
Ruffians
Ryo Nishitani
Kazuki Ota
西谷 亮
太田 一騎
Nishitani Ryō
Ōta Kazuki