Shinra Tensei
 is a technique used through the
Deva Path
 of the
Rinnegan
, said to be its pinnacle ability.

Overview

Shinra Tensei can only be used by those who can manipulate the five basic
nature transformations
.
 The user creates a "repulsive force" (
斥力
,
sekiryoku
), which is generally used to push away everything in the vicinity.
 Users can narrow the repulsion's direction, only pushing away things on certain sides so that nearby allies will be unaffected.
 This repulsive force is most commonly created around the user as a defence, repelling nearby opponents or incoming
ninjutsu
;
 it can also be used to disperse ninjutsu that have already struck the user, such as
Amaterasu
.
 Alternatively, the repulsive force can be created away from the user, destroying whatever is at the designated location.

Shinra Tensei's strength and area of effect are determined by how much
chakra
 is used. In its typical usage, it repels only within a few feet's distance and has enough force to destroy
earthen
 constructs.

Nagato
, after cutting off control of his other
Six Paths of Pain
 and channelling all his chakra to the Deva Path, performs a Shinra Tensei that is large enough and powerful enough to reduce
Konohagakure
 to a deep crater; doing this shortens his life
 and afterwards dulls the responsiveness of his Six Paths of Pain.
 At its standard strength, opponents can resist Shinra Tensei by securing themselves to the ground: coating their feet with chakra to increase traction,
 digging in deeply enough to counter repulsion,
 or
grouping together
 to minimise the repulsive force's influence.
 Shinra Tensei also exerts a recoil on the user. If the opponent can withstand the repulsive force and force the user to use enough force, they can turn Shinra Tensei against the user.

After Shinra Tensei is performed, there is a brief cooldown period during which it and other Deva Path abilities cannot be used. At a minimum, this cooldown is five seconds. During large-scale uses, such as the one that destroyed Konoha, the cooldown takes several minutes.

Influence

The names of Shinra Tensei and its companion ability,
Banshō Ten'in
, are derived from
Shinra Banshō
 (
神羅万象
,
literally meaning:
 Everything Covered by God), a Japanese
four-character idiom
 and homophone variant of
Shinra Banshō
 (
森羅万象
,
literally meaning:
 All-Covering Forests and Ten Thousand Things), a Buddhist idiom which has come to mean "All of Nature" or "All of Creation".

Trivia






The Shinra Tensei orb.



In the anime, Shinra Tensei is sometimes depicted as an orb of varying colours which surrounds the Deva Path.

In
Naruto Shippūden: Shinobi Rumble
, an enhanced, "Full Throttle" version of the technique called "Shinra Tensei: Seiatsu" (
神羅天征・征圧
,
literally meaning:
 Heavenly Subjugation of the Omnipresent God: Subjugating Pressure) can be performed.

In
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 4
, Sasuke can use Shinra Tensei while he is in his Complete Body — Susanoo form.

In the manga, Kaguya attacks Naruto and his clones with a repulsive force by extending her hand, but the name of the jutsu used is not mentioned.
 In the
Jump Force
 game, where the ability is seen again, it is confirmed to be Shinra Tensei.

In the anime,
Momoshiki
 repels a burst of Fūma Shuriken through a jutsu with repulsive capabilities, but does not mention its name. Even so, the jutsu in question has the same characteristics as Shinra Tensei, is used through the Rinnegan and Momoshiki has demonstrated that he meets the necessary requirements (being able to manipulate the five basic nature transformations).

See Also

Repulsion Technique

Ōhirume

References