The
Shinobi Union
 is the successor to the
Allied Shinobi Forces
.

Overview

Whereas the Allied Forces were composed only of the
shinobi
 of the
Five Great Shinobi Countries
, as well as the
samurai
 of the
Land of Iron
, the Union draws from any
hidden village
 that wishes to participate. Principally led by the five
Kage
, the Union accepts
missions
 from clients and forms a team from all its member nations' shinobi who are found to be most suitable for the mission. Such a system provides equal opportunity to all villages, eliminating the need for future conflicts.

Under the Union, the hidden villages and their associated countries quickly recovered from the
Fourth Shinobi World War
. In the interest of preserving the peace, a representative from each member village is stationed in every other hidden village so that they can discuss common issues and pursue mutual interests. When the
Land of Silence
 emerges as a potential threat to the Union, the Union's chief organiser, Shikamaru, is tasked with stopping another outbreak of war.

Regulations forbid the Union members from armed conflict with each other, hence when
Danjō
, the
Land of Earth
's
daimyō
, ordered
Iwagakure
 to conquer the
Land of Flowers
, whom are allied with the
Land of Lightning
 and therefore under
Kumogakure
's protection, the
Fourth Tsuchikage
 sought an excuse to withdraw from the Union so she would not be implicated in warring against Kumo.
Kirigakure
 would most likely join Iwa in the war, due to their trade for vital minerals. This conflict nearly brought about the dissolution of the Union and its hard-earned peace, as such wars between villages were far more common than the anomaly of the
Ōtsutsuki clan
's global threat that brought the
world
 together. If war does arise and the Union dissolved, it would mean peace may never be achieved again. Danjō also saw the Union as a hindrance to the true nature of shinobi, whom he believed to be soldiers meant to fight from birth to death, and that constant conflict is what maintains power balance to prevent future disasters. However, with the
Seventh Hokage
 and the
Land of Fire
's daimyō,
Ikkyū Madoka
, offering a solution to Danjō during the
Continental Summit
, persuaded Iwa from participating in the invasion, thus saving the Union.

Representatives

Each village sends a representative to represent their hidden village of origin for the Union. Accordingly, these are shinobi of high value to their hidden villages and have "promising futures" and they meet monthly in the Land of Iron. By the time of
Shikamaru Hiden
, there were a total of ten representatives which included:

Konoha:
Shikamaru Nara
, Head Representative and Chief Organiser

Suna:
Temari

Kiri:
Chōjūrō

Kumo:
Omoi

Iwa: Unknown

Land of Iron: Unknown

Four unknown representatives

Trivia

The concept of the Shinobi Union is similar to the real world organisation, the
United Nations
, which was also created from the alliance of nations on the winning side of a world war, specifically World War II. Like the
Allied Shinobi Forces
, this alliance was also known as Allies.