Ao's Shinobi-Ware.



Integrated Mechanical Ninja Tools
 (
内蔵機械忍具
,
Naizō Kikai Ningu
), known simply as
Shinobi-Ware
 (
シノビ・ウェアー
,
Shinobi Ueā
), are bionic type
scientific ninja tools
 that have been developed to be used as prosthetics or implants for both civilian and combat use.

As bionic type scientific ninja tools, they incorporate the engineering of traditional
puppets
 and research into the unique properties of
Hashirama Senju
's cells, and utilise artificial
chakra pathways
 to interface with the recipient's body.

Originally invented and developed by
Katasuke Tōno
, members of
Kara
 also possess advanced Shinobi-Ware after Katasuke's research was stolen and the designs were expanded upon by Kara Inner
Amado Sanzu
.

List of Shinobi-Ware

Naruto Uzumaki

Naruto
 utilised a
prosthetic right hand
 which was a prototype
ninjutsu
-absorbing device based on the abilities of
Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki
, developed by Katasuke; the ability to discharge absorbed ninjutsu still remains under development, and Naruto has only worn it briefly during a sparring match.

Ao





Ao's Shinobi-Ware.



Ao
's body had been extensively augmented with Shinobi-Ware as a result of injuries received during the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, including a cranio-facial prosthetic covering his right eye, cheek, and ear, as well as prosthetic limbs replacing his left arm below the elbow and left leg below the knee. A device was also seemingly implanted into the right side of his chest which could launch a pair of Fire Release Bullets as a surprise attack.

The
Type-3 Shinobi Gauntlet
 (
参式忍籠手
,
Sanshiki Shinobigote
)
 is a type of
Shinobi Gauntlet
 seemingly built into
Ao
's prosthetic left forearm, which in addition to being able to discharge jutsu was outfitted with a double-sided Chakra Blade emitter. The
Chakra Absorber Mark 2
 (
チャクラ・アブソーバーMk.II
,
Chakura Abusōbā Māku Tsu
)
 is one of the various pieces of Shinobi-Ware used by Ao. It presumably draws chakra from his body to power and control his other Shinobi-Ware and Scientific Ninja Tools.

Garō





Garō's Shinobi-Ware.



Garō
's body was modified with
Reflux-Type Pressure-Enhanced Muscles
 (
還流式増圧筋肉
,
Kanryūshiki Zōatsu Kinniku
) and his left and right forearms were outfitted with
Type-5 Shinobi Gauntlets
 (
五式忍籠手
,
Goshiki Shinobigote
), which were designed for combat and included three claw-like fingers and a central cannon that could launch Fire Release Bullets.
 His body also contained an
Argos Unit
 (
アルゴス・ユニット
,
Arugosu Yunitto
) and other unidentified Shinobi-Ware.

Kawaki






Kawaki's Shinobi-Ware.



Kawaki
's body has been extensively modified by Amado down to the level of his circulatory and nervous systems, with the technical genius of Kara implanting countless
microscopic scientific ninja tools
 throughout his entire body to make alterations to his body tissues at the cellular level, granting him powers similar to that of a
kekkei genkai
, such as allowing him to transform and weaponize parts of his body.
 The details of his Shinobi-Ware are strictly classified.

After Kawaki's right forearm was destroyed by
Delta
, Katasuke fitted the stump with a prosthetic interface and gave him one of the prototypes designed for Naruto until he could developed a high performance prosthesis attuned to Kawaki's chakra. As Naruto's prototype was only designed to function using Naruto's chakra, using it required Naruto to continuously knead and share a trivial amount of chakra with Kawaki, which Naruto compared to maintaining a single
shadow clone
. The arm appeared to have no special features and ceased functioning when Naruto slept, though the latter trait allowed Kawaki to determine whether Naruto was alive and conscious no matter where he was. This new prosthetic was ultimately incompatible with the more complex technology within Kawaki's body, which began rejecting the arm. Eventually, Amado repaired Kawaki's lost arm. He also installed a shutdown code into Kawaki, which Jigen previously forbade him to do.

Delta






Delta's Shinobi-Ware.



Delta
's legs are modified with the same tissue-altering Shinobi-Ware as Kawaki, allowing her to transform and weaponise her legs, as well as to emit continuous blasts of chakra that enable flight. A deployable drone is housed in her back, which can follow her commands and can be remotely controlled without requiring chakra. The drone is equipped with a camera that is linked directly to Delta's artificial eyes, and also has a radar feature that allows it to detect things invisible to the naked eye. Her artificial eyes can absorb and discharge jutsu, and are outfitted with a special beam emitter that causes cellular decay, halting regenerative abilities. However Delta's artificial eyes don't have an unlimited capacity and can be overwhelmed by a person of massive chakra supply. Her entire body can self-destruct as a last resort, though her very conscious can be uploaded into the drone and downloaded into spare bodies should the one she is inhabiting be destroyed. Amado also installed a shutdown command into her body, allowing him to render her unconscious at will.

Boro






Boro's Shinobi-Ware.



Boro
's Shinobi-Ware augmented his
healing technique
 to the point that it could activate instantly and even restore completely obliterated limbs along with also being able to regenerate his entire right half being exploded and his head completely obliterated within seconds. His body also contains devices that allows him to release
viruses
 and gunpowder. The weakness of this is that if his core is destroyed, it could neutralise his regenerative abilities and cause all the Shinobi Ware within his body to lose control, but he could switch it within moments using hand seals to overcome this.

Code






Code's Shinobi-Ware



Code
's Shinobi-Ware allows him to transform and weaponise parts of his body, similar to Kawaki's. So far, Code has transformed his own hands into razor-sharp talons capable of slicing through human flesh with ease. Unlike the rest of Kara, Code's Shinobi-Ware also serve as limiters to his enormous combat potential he gained from the
White Kāma
, to prevent him from usurping
Jigen
's leadership; only Amado could rescind them.

References