This article is about a Root member.  For other uses, see
Shin (disambiguation)
.

Shin
 (
シン
) was a
Konohagakure
 orphan who was recruited into the
Root
 division of the village's
Anbu
.

Background






Shin after becoming an orphan.



Even though he was trained to abandon his emotions, Shin grew close to a younger Root member,
Sai
. He recognised Sai's talent for art, and encouraged him to continue the hobby. Sai looked up to him as a brother and began to shed Root's teachings, but Shin soon died of an unknown disease, leaving Sai's training to suppress most of his memories of Shin.
 Prior to Shin's death, it was noted that he and Sai were supposed to fight to the death by Root regulations, in a final step to eradicate emotions. After Sai met
Naruto Uzumaki
, who he noted to be similar to Shin, Sai's memories of him returned, which brought a smile to his face.

In the anime, Sai and Shin were forced to fight to the death by
Danzō Shimura
 to fully kill their emotions. Knowing that he was terminally ill and about to die at any minute, Shin told Sai to report to Danzō that he killed him in battle. Before telling him to go, Shin told Sai that he must suppress his feelings otherwise, the missions undertaken by Root would consume him. As Sai leaves to report to Danzō, Shin dies.

Personality

According to
Sai
, Shin and Naruto are very similar stating that Shin was also loud, impatient, and unrefined.
 Shin was also a very kind individual with a pleasant disposition as he helped Sai pursue his interest in drawing. He was also stated to be very tenacious and absent-minded.

Appearance






Shin's full appearance after being reanimated.



Shin had grey hair and light-coloured eyes,
 which are depicted as black in the anime. When he was a child, he wore a pale yellow shirt together with a pair of dark brown pants. These outfits were the ones he wore in the cover of Sai's picture book. When he was older, he wore the official uniform of the
Anbu
, and carried giant shuriken as well as a
tantō
 on his back. After being
reincarnated
 by
Kabuto Yakushi
, it was revealed that at some point before his death he used to wear an outfit exactly like the one his brother wears inclusive of the customary Root jacket. In the manga, he also wore a Konoha
forehead protector
 when he was reincarnated.

Abilities






Shin clashes with Kankurō's puppet Sasori.



Shin was a very capable shinobi during his lifetime, enough to be reincarnated by Kabuto to fight in the
Fourth Shinobi World War
. He was shown to be skilled in
kenjutsu
, using the standard tantō of the Root shinobi to deliver
swift slashes
 at the opponent. He was also capable of easily defeating multiple Anbu
shadow clones
 using ordinary
taijutsu
.

Part II

Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation

Main article:
Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation

In preparation for the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, Shin was
reincarnated
 by
Kabuto Yakushi
 to fight against the
Allied Shinobi Forces
. He was later assigned to the
Surprise Attack and Diversion Platoon
 as the group's support.






Shin fighting Omoi and the Sasori puppet.



After pursuing the three remaining members of the
Infiltration and Reconnaissance Party
 atop
Deidara
's clay bird, he remained vigilant whilst
Sasori

manipulated
 the captive and
booby-trapped

Muta Aburame
 to attack the opposing
Surprise Attack Division
. Detecting that the enemy had
evaded
 the blast, Shin tried to dive down to their position with
tantō
 in hand, but was violently driven into the ground when
Sai
 ambushed him from above. As his broken neck regenerated, he implored his brother to flee, remarking that Sai's team had no chance of victory against them. Briefly engaging Sai, Shin obstructed the enemy, after
Omoi

liberated

Tokuma
 and
Ranka
. Confronted by
Kankurō
's
Sasori
 puppet and Omoi, he avoided their attacks thanks to Sasori's
assistance
, before
Hoheto Hyūga
 alerted his team to the fact that Shin's stomach was packed with explosive clay.






Shin is freed from the Impure World Reincarnation.



Just as he was about to be detonated, Shin was
captured
 by Kankurō's
Sanshōuo
 puppet, which effectively stifled the blast. As he reformed, he then told Sai that he didn't want to hurt him, as he had already been freed from
Root
. As an enraged Sai
attacked
 Sasori and Deidara, Shin saw the image that Sai had drawn of the two together, recollecting the time when it was created. After the remainder of his platoon were
restrained
, Sai suggested they finish the fight they never got to start all those years ago but Shin tells him there was no need, as finally seeing Sai's drawing, had freed his soul. He then crumbled, leaving behind a pile of earth and ash along with the corpse of an unknown individual that was used as a sacrifice in the ritual.

In Other Media

Video Games

Shin is a playable character in the following video games:

Game name
Japanese release
English release
Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Online
14 April 2013
20 July 2016

Trivia

"Shin" (
新
) means "new".

In the anime, Shin's eyes were depicted as being black. However, when he was reincarnated — the only time his eyes are seen open in the manga — they are depicted as being light-coloured.
 Curiously, when Shin is reincarnated in the anime, his eyes are black in colour, however when Sasori uses Shin
as a puppet
, his eyes turn white as if his personality had been eliminated by Kabuto, which was not the case.

According to the databook(s):

His hobby was to look at pictures Sai drew.

Quotes

(To
Sai
) "
I… don't want to harm you. In death… I was finally free of "
Root
".
"

(To Sai) "
I finally saw the drawing I'd always wanted to see… It looks like your drawing has freed my soul.
"

References