Six Paths Sage Mode
 (
六道仙人モード
,
Rikudō Sennin Mōdo
) is a divine transformation gifted by
Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki
 to those who have an iron faith and the will to never give up.
 It significantly enhances the user's powers and allows them to use a number of new techniques.

Attributes

Naruto's initial Nine-Tails Chakra Mode with Six Paths Sage Mode.
Naruto's initial chakra mode with Six Paths Sage Mode in the
Boruto
 anime
.
Naruto's initial chakra mode with Six Paths Sage Mode in the
Boruto
 movie
.
Naruto's second chakra mode with Six Paths Sage Mode in the
Boruto
 movie and
Boruto
 anime.
Naruto's initial chakra mode with Six Paths Sage Mode in the
Boruto
 manga
.
Naruto's second chakra mode with Six Paths Sage Mode in the
Boruto
 manga.
1/6

This state is indicated with Naruto's pupils consisting of a cross of vertical
fox
-slits with horizontal
toad
-slits, and there is no pigmentation around his eyes that would otherwise signify the standard
Sage Mode
.
 Since Naruto first awakened this power, he has always used it simultaneously with the
Nine-Tails Chakra Mode
. Directly after obtaining
Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki
's power, Naruto's eyes are yellow
 and later orange with the various chakra modes he uses after
the war
, just like his previous ones before meeting Hagoromo.
 This mode increases the user's physical parameters well above that of Sage Mode and the Nine-Tails Chakra Mode,
 as Naruto was able to kick away
Truth-Seeking Balls
 before entering the Nine-Tails Chakra Mode with this power.
 As a heightened state of Sage Mode, Naruto's
jutsu
 are augmented with larger amounts of
natural energy
 to make them stronger. With the power he received from Hagoromo, Naruto gains a masterful grasp of chakra, control over all things in nature, and the ability to comprehend all universal things.
 His
sensing
 ability also rises to the point where he can sense and thus react to the invisible shadows in the world of
Limbo
.

When Naruto uses his Nine-Tails Chakra Mode in conjunction with his Six Paths Sage Mode, he can push his abilities even further, such as being able to levitate,
 becoming fast enough to catch
Kaguya Ōtsutsuki
 off guard and slice off her right arm,
 even being durable enough to take a
Chidori
 unharmed.

Trivia





Naruto's eyes in the original colourised chapters.



It's unclear what this form's name signifies, and consequentially what the best translation is. "Six Paths Sage Mode" suggests it is a version of
Sage Mode
 augmented with the
Six Paths
. "Sage of Six Paths Mode" would suggest it is named after
Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki
, better known as the Sage of Six Paths. The original Japanese supports both translations, and in fact could intend for both meanings to be true.

In
Shikamaru Hiden
, it is suggested that having the chakra of all nine
tailed beasts
 is also a requirement to obtain this mode.

In the colourised versions of chapters
676
 and
678
 included in digital editions of
Weekly Shōnen Jump
, Naruto's eyes in this mode were depicted with orange irides, much like his previous transformations. Later illustrations coloured by
Masashi Kishimoto
 instead depict Naruto with yellow irides. The colouration was corrected in subsequent chapters and the
Naruto: Colour Edition
 release of
volume 71
.

In VIZ Shonen Jump, Naruto's Six Paths Sage Mode was attributed to the
Six Paths Yang Power
. However, this is not mentioned in the manga or the databooks.

In
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 chapter 52, Naruto asked about the difference between "Baryon Mode" and "Kurama Mode and Sage of Six Paths Mode" to Kurama. It is suggested that he was using the latter forms when he fought
Isshiki Ōtsutsuki
.

References