"
Smaller and More Useful
" (
小さくて、便利
,
Chīsakute, Benri
) is chapter 72 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 manga.

Summary

Kawaki
 stresses to
Shikamaru
 he doesn't know about
Amado
's objectives, pointing out Amado restored his
Kāma
 in secret. He believes Amado's motives no longer matter, confident that
Code
 has killed him, which
Naruto
 admonishes him for. He also antagonises Shikamaru, drawing more censure from Naruto. A shinobi arrives informing Shikamaru there's an urgent phone call to him, from Amado. Amado is calling from a station in the outskirts of the
Land of Snow
, where is with
Ada
 and
Daemon
, three to four days away from
Konoha
. Shikamaru asks about Code, and Amado updates him that he talked to Ada, who severed ties with him and accepted Shikamaru's proposition. Shikamaru is concerned about Code's other ally, but Amado explains who Daemon is, and that he's coming with her. Shikamaru accuses him of not having the authority to make such deals, and Amado says Ada is the final authority reminding Shikamaru that he was the one who made the proposition. Amado makes it clear that they don't want Ada and Daemon as enemies. He also reveals he had to rescind Code's power limiters, but argues that the loss of Ada's favour more than makes up for it, and that Shikamaru knows how to use game pieces. Shikamaru tells them there will be questions when they arrive, and they hang up. Ada is displeased with Amado calling them game pieces, but he defends himself, saying that figures of speech are effective with Shikamaru.
 She warns him to use that cleverness to help her with Kawaki, otherwise she'll kill out of spite, barely able to contain herself in her hatred of him for giving her her alluring ability. Daemon interjects saying he'll be the one doing the killing. Shikamaru asks for Naruto, and all of
Team 7
, including Kawaki.
Boruto
 dresses up to answer the summons, paying attention to the new marks on his chest.
Hinata
 confirms with Boruto that he has a new mission, and cries, worried that this time he might not come back.
Himawari
 watches them. Boruto apologises for making her worry, promising her he'll return, having done so even after he died once. Outside,
Momoshiki
 manifests for Boruto, chiding him for making a promise he can't keep. Boruto asks why he's still around if he can't reincarnate anymore, and Momoshiki asks in return why he clings to an existence of despair that is fast approaching, reminding Boruto of his previous warning. Momoshiki claims that Boruto will lose the will to live enough to want to escape the world, which will allow Momoshiki to take him over completely, and live in his stead, his possession functioning as a reincarnation. He jabs that Boruto was always meant to be his vessel in the end. Boruto shouts at Momoshiki, vowing to keep him shoved down and in despair. Momoshiki's manifestation dissipates.
Sarada
 and
Mitsuki
 arrive, thinking Boruto is pumped for a mission. Sarada finds Boruto's attitude strange, while Mitsuki thinks that no matter what happens, Boruto will always be Boruto. Himawari says that if she became a shinobi, she could help Boruto, and asks Hinata if it would make her worry more instead. Code brings
Bug
 to the
Ten-Tails
' pen, explaining what the place is to him. Code is concerned that while
Sasuke
 can no longer get there, Boruto and Kawaki as full
Ōtsutsuki
 might soon master the
Space–Time Ninjutsu
 necessary to reach the place. Bug asks his plan, as even at full strength, he wasn't able to defeat Daemon, and lost Ada as an ally. Code admits he was outclassed by Daemon, which is why Bug attempted to stop him from waking Daemon up. Code feels it's no use obsessing over the past, and actually thinks things are ok. He proceeds to adjust the Ten-Tails into a more manageable size, covering it with several
Claw Marks
, being able to create many more at once with his full power. Code claims he'll make it smaller and more useful, moulding it like clay. Smaller portions of its body become humanoid, tailed creatures bearing Code's Claw Marks, able to use them to travel as well. Through the marks, Code is also able to see and talk through them, showing off their usefulness.