"
Something Important…
" (
大切なモノ
,
Taisetsuna Mono
) is episode 49 of the
Naruto: Shippūden
 anime.

Synopsis

As
Naruto
 is proclaiming that he will retrieve
Sasuke
,
the team
 is ambushed by
Kabuto
, who had managed to locate them. He is surprised that they tracked them, but reminds himself that
Yamato
 is one of
Orochimaru
's experiments after all. Naruto tells Kabuto to butt off, but when Kabuto refuses, Naruto comes rushing at him with
Rasengan
. When Kabuto manages to easily avoid and dispel the Rasengan, Naruto decides to attack him head on with his
Shadow Clone Technique
. Kabuto breaks one of Naruto's wrists and uses his
Chakra Scalpel
 to take out the other Naruto's. Yamato uses his
Wood Release
 to trap Kabuto, who jumps in mid-air to avoid being hit.
Sakura
 climbs up the wood structures and attempts to hit Kabuto with her
Chakra Enhanced Strength
; Kabuto, who has the captured
Sai
 in tow, manages to move out of the way, but Sakura's strike punches a hole through the rock, destroying a hornet's nest and causing the hornets to attack Kabuto.

Using his chakra scalpel, Kabuto strikes and defeats all of the hornets. Believing himself to be outmatched by the three
shinobi
, he frees Sai, whom he still trusts. Kabuto calls Naruto pathetic for continuing to go after Sasuke, claiming that as people change, Sasuke isn't the same person he once knew. Sai recalls Naruto explaining his bond with Sasuke and decides to sneak attack Kabuto from behind, restraining him. Sai explains that he would like to see the bond between Naruto and Sasuke with his own eyes; when Kabuto asks what he is doing, Sai merely repeats Kabuto's words about people being able to change.

Yamato uses his Wood Release to keep Kabuto bound while the team prepares to infiltrate the hideout once more. Kabuto reveals that by now, Sasuke would have finished his training with Orochimaru and thus is probably taking a rest in one of the rooms. Naruto and Sakura are excited to realise that Sasuke truly is inside the hideout, but before they can head out, Kabuto warns them that there are tons of empty rooms and isolated hallways, and while it is possible they may locate Sasuke, chances are they might accidentally enter Orochimaru's private chambers. Nonetheless, the team decide to take the risk and go find Sasuke, with Yamato leaving a
wood clone
 to watch over Kabuto.

In the hideout, Team Kakashi splits themselves into teams - Yamato and Sakura on one team, and Naruto and Sai on the other. Sai agrees, and Naruto relents as he is willing to do anything to save Sasuke. The four go checking many rooms for Sasuke, but find them all empty. Naruto and Sakura each reminisce on their memories with Sasuke, and Naruto, who is running down a hallway, shouts out Sasuke's name. Sasuke, who is sleeping in a room, is awakened by the call and opens a
Sharingan
 activated eye, only to close it a moment after.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Maile Flanagan
Sakura Haruno
Chie Nakamura
中村 千絵
Nakamura Chie
Kate Higgins
Sai
Satoshi Hino
日野 聡
Hino Satoshi
Benjamin Diskin
Yamato
Rikiya Koyama
小山 力也
Koyama Rikiya
Troy Baker
Kabuto Yakushi
Nobutoshi Kanna
神奈 延年
Kanna Nobutoshi
Henry Dittman