The souls of the deceased Hokage.



A
soul
 (
魂
,
tamashī
) is the spirit of a living creature. When a human dies, their soul passes on to the
Pure Land
, though some, such as
Zabuza Momochi
, believe their souls are destined for Hell.
 A soul's appearance varies, depending on whether it is or is not involved in a
jutsu
: free-floating souls resemble small
wisps
,
 while souls freshly freed from reincarnation resemble themselves, merely glowing and translucent.
 Within the mind of a living human, a soul completely resembles themselves.
 Souls can exist on a separate spiritual plane invisible even to the
Senrigan
.





Orochimaru's sealed arms undergoing a process reminiscent of necrosis.



Humans can exist with only part of their soul.
Orochimaru
 lost a portion of his soul, specifically his arms, to the
Shinigami
;
 the process did not kill him, though it left his arms in a state of unendurable pain, and they resembled a form of
necrosis
.

While uncommon, some souls
reincarnate
;
Indra
 and
Asura Ōtsutsuki
 are two known examples of souls who reincarnate throughout the ages, passing along their vast chakra and potential to each new reincarnate. Additionally, the soul of
Obito Uchiha
 was able to perform a fundamentally similar feat,
teleporting
 back to the world of the living and possessing
Kakashi
, bestowing him with his chakra and abilities.
 Orochimaru made it his own personal mission to achieve immortality. The end result was a jutsu which simulates reincarnation, manipulating his own soul, allowing him to move from host to host: the
Living Corpse Reincarnation
.





Itachi Uchiha's reincarnated soul passing on.



Members of the
Ōtsutsuki Clan
 are able to use the power of
Kāma
 to compress and backup their biological data and implant it into a suitable host called a vessel. Upon dying, their soul will migrate to the vessel and thus remain anchored to the world of the living, while the biological data slowly overwrites their genetic data. Once the data is fully extracted, the Ōtsutsuki will completely replace the vessel and resurrect. However, should their vessel die before the extraction is complete, their soul will be completely extinguished.






The deceased Hokage revived by the Summoning: Impure World Reincarnation.



There are several forms of
ninjutsu
 which make use of souls in their effect: the
Dead Demon Consuming Seal
, for example, is capable of stealing the soul of an opponent, feeding it to the Shinigami.
 The most infamous of these techniques is the
Summoning: Impure World Reincarnation
, created by the
Second Hokage
, Tobirama Senju.
 This forbidden technique uses a living body as a template, bring a soul back from the Pure Land and forcing it to inhabit the living body as a form of possession.

The
Rinnegan
 itself has an uncommon dominion over living and deceased souls, as the
Human Path
,

Outer Path
,
 and
Naraka Path
 are all capable manipulating souls in some manner. Through unknown means,
Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki
 - himself a spirit - was able to recall the souls of several past Kage to aid him in rescuing
Team 7
 from
Kaguya's dimension
,
 and later released the previous four Hokage from Orochimaru's usage of the
Summoning: Impure World Reincarnation
.

Trivia

Kōza Kubisaki
's soul was able to linger in the world of living in order to lead
Team 8
 to
Shiromari
's summoning scroll. This feat is later shown with
Hagoromo
 and
Hamura Ōtsutsuki
.

References