An example of space–time ninjutsu being used.



Space–Time Ninjutsu
 (
時空間忍術
,
Jikūkan Ninjutsu
,
English TV:
 "Teleportation Ninjutsu" or "Transportation Techniques",
literally meaning:
 Space–Time Ninja Techniques)
 are techniques that allow the users to manipulate the
space–time continuum
.

Usage

By manipulating a specific point of space, the user can warp anything targeted into a dimensional void and teleport it to another location instantaneously.
Tobirama Senju
,
Minato Namikaze
 and
Obito Uchiha
 are all notably skilled users of space–time ninjutsu for example. Space-time techniques are not common, as
Shikamaru
 noted its rarity.

All
summoning-based techniques
 are space–time related, as they warp the targets through a dimensional void to the summoner's location.

Space–Time Ninjutsu allows one to bypass any
Barrier Ninjutsu
, as barriers only extend over the dimension they are placed upon, and similarly cannot prevent Space–Time Ninjutsu users from escaping to a dimensional void and then back outside of the barrier's confines.

It appears that each specific space-time technique has its own unique dimensional void that other techniques cannot normally access,
 however, a skilled user can synchronise their respective dimension with another to gain access to it — a feat which requires an enormous amount of chakra; directly proportional to the distance between the dimensions.
 Obito for example, despite his ability to use Kamui countless times in a single day without noticeable effects on his chakra reserves struggled to open a portal to one of Kaguya's dimension for even a few seconds. While Kaguya's immense chakra reserves enabled her to connect her dimensions instantly,
 Black Zetsu noted that repeated use would take a toll on her chakra reserves.

Dimensions

Daikokuten
's Dimension

Kaguya's Dimensions

Kamui's Dimension

Kara's Dimension

Momoshiki's Planet

Nue's Dimension

Unidentified World

Trivia

Yomotsu Hirasaka
 is said to be the progenitor of all space–time ninjutsu.

Certain space–time ninjutsu are sometimes confused with the
Body Flicker Technique
, as it creates the illusion of the user instantly moving from one place to another. However, whereas space–time ninjutsu actually transport the user to another location through shortcuts in spacetime, the Body Flicker Technique is merely high-speed movement.
 Despite this, the
Flying Thunder God Technique
 is regularly called the "Body Flicker Technique" by various individuals, including the technique's
creator
.

Further confusion exists in some translations of the series. In Viz's English translations, the Body Flicker Technique is called "Teleportation", whereas space–time ninjutsu are generally referred to as "Transportation Techniques".

In
Naruto the Movie: Legend of the Stone of Gelel
,
Temujin
 summoned a
distortion in space-time
 using his blood to activate the contract in the
Sealing Room
. However, the civilians of
Temujin's Continent
 do not know what chakra and ninjutsu are, thus it remains debatable whether it can be counted as an actual ninjutsu.

Though shinobi typically retrieve their tools by
unsealing
 them from a
scroll
, some have shown the ability to use space-time ninjutsu to summon objects.

See Also

List of space–time ninjutsu

References