"
Squad Mutiny: Everything Falls Apart!
" (
イキナリ仲間割れ!?シカマル小隊大ピンチ
,
Ikinari Nakamaware!? Shikamaru Shōtai Daipinchi
) is episode 112 of the original
Naruto
 anime.

Synopsis

After being caught by
Sakon and Ukon
's
Explosive Tags
,
Shikamaru
 decides to ask the
Sound Four
 if they could simply talk it out rather than fighting; however, this is a ruse so that
Naruto
,
Kiba
,
Akamaru
, and
Chōji
 could attack.
Kidōmaru
 manages to ensnare all of them using his
spider webs
 before they can launch a counterattack. Kiba drops a
Smoke Bomb
, despite Kidōmaru stating that it was futile since they were all trapped in his webs. Shikamaru, however, manages to trap them with his
Shadow Imitation Technique
, explaining that he had attempted to get caught just so that he could have trapped them. Sakon manages to free the Sound Four out of Shikamaru's shadow, and
Jirōbō
 immediately traps them with his
Earth Release Barrier: Earth Prison Dome of Magnificent Nothingness
.

Shikamaru berates himself for getting
his team
 caught in such a trap while Kiba attempts to break his way out using his
Passing Fang
 technique. Kiba manages to create a huge dent in the wall, only for the wall to heal itself.
Neji
 notices that the dome is imbued with
chakra
, and that it will heal any damage done to it; on top of that, their own chakra itself is being absorbed by Jirōbō. Shikamaru asks Jirōbō if he could free their team in exchange for them not pursuing Sasuke; when Jirōbō refuses, Shikamaru then asks if Jirōbō could free just him in exchange for the lives of his teammates. This infuriates both Naruto and Kiba, but Neji and Chōji realise it is nothing but a ruse. Chōji starts eating, much to the dismay of Naruto and Kiba. However, Chōji tells them to remember what Shikamaru had told them before setting off on their mission (he told them that as team leader, he would be ready to lay down his life for the mission and that he was also responsible for the lives of his teammates). Neji adds that when Kiba first attacked the dome, Shikamaru was paying attention to the damage Kiba was causing, and how some parts of the dome healed slower than the others. He goes on to further explain that Shikamaru trying to sell the team out was just a ruse in order to determine where Jirōbō's location was. Proving Shikamaru's theory right, the wall Jirōbō was feeding off of had the strongest chakra lining, whereas the opposite side had the thinnest, meaning it was the weakest part of the dome.

Shikamaru asks Kiba if he could try causing damage to the dome again, and Kiba agrees. Transforming Akamaru into a
Beast Human Clone
 and using the
Four Legs Technique
 on himself, the pair perform their
Fang Passing Fang
 technique, causing damage all around the dome. Shikamaru asks Neji to pinpoint the slowest-healing point of the dome wall and to throw a
kunai
 there to mark the spot. After he does so, Shikamaru tells Chōji to break the wall, as Neji states that only powerful taijutsu can destroy the dome. Chōji uses his
Human Bullet Tank
 technique and manages to break through the dome, freeing the entire team.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Maile Flanagan
Shikamaru Nara
Shotaro Morikubo
森久保 祥太郎
Morikubo Shōtarō
Tom Gibis
Chōji Akimichi
Kentaro Ito
伊藤 健太郎
Itō Kentarō
Robbie Rist
Neji Hyūga
Koichi Tochika
遠近 孝一
Tōchika Kōichi
Steve Staley
Kiba Inuzuka
Kosuke Toriumi
鳥海 浩輔
Toriumi Kōsuke
Kyle Hebert
Kidōmaru
Susumu Chiba
千葉 進歩
Chiba Susumu
Peter Lurie
Sakon
Shunsuke Sakuya
咲野 俊介
Sakuya Shunsuke
Brian Beacock
Jirōbō
Kenta Miyake
三宅 健太
Miyake Kenta
Michael Sorich