"
Steam and Food Pills
" (
湯けむりと兵糧丸
,
Yukemuri to Hyōrōgan
) is episode 496 of the
Naruto: Shippūden
 anime.

Synopsis

Shikamaru
 and
Chōji
 visit
Ino
 at
Yamanaka Flowers
, wanting to discuss what to get for
Naruto
 and
Hinata
. Ino says she already picked her present, and says they can't go shop with her when Shikamaru wants to go to the same store. At
Yakiniku Q
, Shikamaru discusses with Chōji about ideas, and is shocked to find he's already picked a gift, vouchers for dinner at a fancy tea house. Shikamaru considers giving them cash, so they pick whatever they want, but considers it to be too impersonal and lazy for a gift.
 Something Chōji says about eating ice-cream in a snowy place inspires Shikamaru to give them a honeymoon. The two come across
Temari
, and she and Shikamaru exchange awkward words. Chōji suggests getting Temari to give him a woman's point of view for a honeymoon location. Shikamaru asks her about it, but the two misunderstand each other, Temari thinking Shikamaru wants to go on a honeymoon with her. The two spend the day together. Ino goes to the store, and is about to get a portrait frame for Naruto and Hinata, but
Sakura
 shows up, also intending to get the same gift. Ino and Sakura try psyching each other out of buying the frame, and end up being kicked out of the store for upsetting other customers. The two begin arguing who is more feminine and ask a passing Chōji for his opinion. Chōji says he thinks women who can cook are very feminine, and the two decide to make food pills. Both use ninjutsu skills to make pills. Chōji tries them both and is overwhelmed by how good they are, but since he ate them both together, he doesn't know which is which. Chōji passes out, while trying to figure out what happened, Ino and Sakura try each other's food pills, really enjoying them. Chōji wakes up, figuring all the ice-cream he ate earlier made his blood sugar go too high. Sakura and Ino decide to go find gifts together. Shikamaru and Temari almost go in a hot spring inn together, and they finally understand what the other meant, only Temari beats him up. Chōji, Ino, and Shikamaru discuss their progress at
Ramen Ichiraku
.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Iruka Umino
Toshihiko Seki
関 俊彦
Seki Toshihiko
Kyle McCarley
Shikamaru Nara
Shotaro Morikubo
森久保 祥太郎
Morikubo Shōtarō
Tom Gibis
Chōji Akimichi
Kentaro Ito
伊藤 健太郎
Itō Kentarō
Robbie Rist
Sakura Haruno
Chie Nakamura
中村 千絵
Nakamura Chie
Kate Higgins
Ino Yamanaka
Ryoka Yuzuki
柚木 涼香
Yuzuki Ryōka
Colleen O'Shaughnessey
Temari
Romi Park
朴 璐美
Paku Romi
Tara Platt
Orochimaru
Kujira
くじら
Kujira
Steve Blum
Variety store: shop assistant
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Kyle Hebert