This article is about Zetsu's personal technique. For the general skill, see
Body Replacement Technique
.

The
Substitute Technique
 is a technique unique to White Zetsu. It allows him to assume the identity of any individual for a variety of purposes: though similar in nature to the standard
Transformation Technique
, it boasts far greater utility.

Usage

Having no fixed appearance or smell, this technique allows White Zetsu to alter his form and chakra, at will. In becoming the perfect duplicate of another individual, he will even possess chakra identical to that of the one that he is impersonating along with any clothing they might be wearing or tools they may be carrying.
 The clones can also use this technique to copy a target's abilities. Typically, White Zetsu would employ his
parasite clones
 to serve as substitutes; he was able to control these clones remotely and remained aware of their actions and experiences.
 The transformed clones can even retain the appearance of the person they were impersonating after death, reverting to its true form only after the technique was voluntarily released by the original White Zetsu.
 Because the substitute is weaker than the original individual, their primary purpose is to function as a diversion.

In an effort to increase
Akatsuki
's military power,
Kabuto Yakushi
 conducted research with a captured
Yamato
 to enhance the
White Zetsu Army
. In the anime, however, the army's clones were regularly shown using copied techniques and could endure prolonged battle.
 Unlike the original's version, the technique is seemingly dispersed once the transformed soldier is dealt with a significant amount of damage or killed.
 Additionally, these clones demonstrated the ability to partially revert to their true forms while transformed.

Trivia

In the manga, the clone used as a substitute for
Kisame Hoshigaki
 resembles a regular parasite clone.
 In the anime, however, the clone possesses the
Venus flytrap
-like extensions that protrude from the side of the original White Zetsu, as well as the clothing that White Zetsu was wearing at the time.

In both the manga and anime, the transformed clones were shown to bleed when damaged. However, in
Road to Ninja: Naruto the Movie
, limbs severed from transformed clones were shown to leak a white substance, similar to
Obito Uchiha
's artificial arm. One clone was also shown to regenerate its lost limb upon reverting to its true form.

See Also

Face Copying Technique

Shadow Mirror Body Changing Method

References