"
Super Chōchō Love Upheaval!
" (
超チョウチョウ恋騒動!!
,
Chō Chōchō Koi Sōdō!!
) is episode 69 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

As shooting continues,
Chōchō
 is still hurt by
Tomaru
's words, and discusses her self-image with
Sarada
. Tomaru and the director look through photos of Ashina's potential successors.
Ashina
 refuses to have her mended dress back when Chōchō offers it to her. On the set, Ashina wants her character to have a meaningful death scene, but Tomaru and the director dismiss her suggestions. Ashina orders Chōchō to get her some water. The
Amegakure
 assailant drops a
flash bomb
, and kidnaps Tomaru.
Konohamaru
 chases him, but is stalled by one of his shadow clones. The assailant escapes through a route Chōchō should have been covering, but wasn't because of Ashina's demand.
Shikadai
 and
Boruto
 find it strange the assailant mentioned a ransom, when he previously issued a death threat. Konohamaru goes report to the
Hokage
. The ransom note for the production specifies Ashina is to deliver the money.
 Chōchō offers to disguise herself as Ashina with the
Transformation Technique
, but Ashina refuses, determined to help save her costar. The shinobi agree to it, on the condition that Ashina follows
Moegi
's instructions while the genin cover her. The press discovers the kidnapping, but Ashina handles them, impressing the crew with her dedication to the production. The other genin try to convince Chōchō to return to her normal weight, arguing that she needs to be at full power for what's ahead, but she angrily refuses. Ashina takes the money to the exchange location. The genin watch her, and
Mitsuki
 makes a potato chip analogy for Chōchō. The kidnapper arrives with Tomaru. Ashina comments on the irony of her saving him while she's supposed to die in the production. The kidnapper releases Tomaru, who Ashina instructs to leave. The kidnapper offers Ashina the money, who tells him it would be suspicious. Ashina says she'll be in the spotlight again, and the kidnapper takes off his mask, revealing himself as Konohamaru, who explains her partner has been captured. He was forced to put on the ruse because her partner wouldn't reveal who he was working with him. Ashina was frustrated with Tomaru monopolising the production only because of his good looks when she thinks he can't act. Ashina plans to kill herself with
explosive tags
, but Konohamaru knocks them off her hand, causing them to go off and cause rock slides. Tomaru falls and hurts his back. Moegi and the genin protect the crew. Thinking about Mitsuki's potato chip lecture, Chōchō exposes her chubby self to Tomaru as she protects him from falling rocks. Ashina is arrested, and Tomaru becomes attracted to Chōchō. She offers him chips, but refuses his ring, saying she wants to remain free, and that he'll have plenty of rivals to fight over her. Chōchō gives Mitsuki a bag of chips, who later eats them with
Orochimaru
. Mitsuki tells him to disregard his earlier question about being his father or mother. Chōchō eats with her parents.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Chōchō Akimichi
Ryoko Shiraishi
白石 涼子
Shiraishi Ryōko
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Shikadai Nara
Kensho Ono
小野 賢章
Ono Kenshō
Inojin Yamanaka
Atsushi Abe
阿部 敦
Abe Atsushi
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Konohamaru Sarutobi
Hidenori Takahashi
高橋 英則
Takahashi Hidenori
Moegi Kazamatsuri
Noriko Shitaya
下屋 則子
Shitaya Noriko
Tomaru
Junya Enoki
榎木 淳弥
Enoki Junya
Ashina
Chika Anzai
安済 知佳
Anzai Chika
Producer
Ikuji Nose
野瀬 育二
Nose Ikuji
Director
Shinya Takahashi
高橋 伸也
Takahashi Shin'ya
Gas-masked Shinobi
Yo Tokinaga
時永 洋
Tokinaga Yō
Reporter
Ryo Nishitani
西谷 亮
Nishitani Ryō
Orochimaru
Kujira
くじら
Kujira