"
Super Idiot
" (
大馬鹿野郎
,
Ōbaka Yarō
) is chapter 78 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 manga.

Summary

Shikamaru
 is notified that
Naruto
's and
Hinata
's
chakra
 vanished, and he wonders if
Code
 is involved. One of the investigators mentioned that for a moment,
Kawaki
's chakra signature was registered.
Himawari
 arrives home to find it being investigated.
Boruto
 wonders why Kawaki would do it. Shikamaru asks
Ada
 to
verify
 it, and she confirms Kawaki was responsible, but can't track him while he's shrunk down. Boruto leaves to search for Kawaki. Ada reviews Kawaki's conversation with Naruto, and announces Kawaki might be trying to kill Boruto again.
Sarada
 is shocked to learn that Kawaki killed Boruto before, having thought it was Code. Shikamaru explains to her that Boruto asked for it to protect them from
Momoshiki
, likely the same reason he might try again.
Sumire
 tries to stop her, and Shikamaru warns her that Kawaki can't be reasoned with as he's too unstable. Sarada is frustrated that she only learned Boruto was killed after he was resurrected, unaware he was even in danger. She feels she can't do nothing when she does know, and leaves against Shikamaru's orders. Kawaki intercepts Boruto on his way home on the
Hokage Rock
, trying to send him away as well. Boruto stops it with his
Kāma
.
 He returns to normal size and explains where he sent Naruto and Hinata away with
Daikokuten
, the dimension they're in frozen in time, so they won't die or starve. Kawaki attacks Boruto with the
cubes
 and his
transformed arm
. Boruto tries reasoning with him, but Kawaki is focused on killing him over being an
Ōtsutsuki
. The two continue fighting.
Sai
 updates
Amado
 on the developments,
Sukunahikona
 making it difficult to pin him down, and that Kawaki's noncooperation might require use of extreme measures. Sarada arrives and attacks Kawaki, who absorbs her
Fire Release
. He tells her not to interfere, and Boruto wants her to run. Sarada thinks it's all reason for her to stay, as a shinobi who aims to become
Hokage
. Kawaki thinks shinobi are truly fated to die early and slashes at her. Boruto jumps in front of it, protecting her, but gets his right eye slashed. He wants her to move aside.
Mitsuki

extends his arm
, holding Kawaki's, and Shikamaru
paralyses
 him with his shadow, which prevents Kawaki from shrinking. Mitsuki blocks Kawaki's arm so he can't absorb jutsu with his Kāma.
Sasuke
 holds a
sword
 to Kawaki's neck, warning him against resisting.
Konohamaru
 helps Boruto. Shikamaru asks what Kawaki did to Naruto and Hinata. He says what he had to do for their sake and
Konoha
's. They can't reach an understanding. Momoshiki manifests through Boruto, and absorbs Shikamaru's jutsu, freeing Kawaki to shrink away from Mitsuki. Momoshiki tells Kawaki he can't afford himself to be taken in if he wants to kill Momoshiki. Kawaki is confused by Momoshiki's assistance, who urges him not to waste the opportunity. He shrinks again in time to evade Mitsuki. Shikamaru reasons that Kawaki's extensive shrinking will take a toll on his chakra, and they should strike when he's recovering, ordering the shinobi to look for him. Sasuke wonders why Momoshiki would help Kawaki, who wants him dead. Boruto returns, and Sarada blames herself for his eye. Boruto blames Kawaki, which Mitsuki agrees with. Boruto sees Momoshiki, who tells him he lost one of his blue eyes already, adding that the ending has begun, and can no longer be stopped.