The
Super Beast Imitating Drawing
 is a technique that allows the user to animate ink drawings, which act upon the user's will.

Usage

Using
chakra
-infused ink, the user can quickly and expertly draw objects onto their
scroll
. The moment the brush is removed from the scroll, the images leap from the paper, grow to life-size, and act according to the user's will. Because they are made of ink, a single blow is usually enough to dispel them. For discreet communiques while undercover, Sai is able to turn the words he writes into small animals, allowing them to travel unnoticed to the intended target, after which the ink animal requires a scroll to revert back into written information.
 In addition to the animals it is normally used to create, Sai can produce
explosive tags
.
 In the anime, for the drawings to retain stability upon emerging, the user's emotional state must have a true passion for them. Otherwise, the drawings will immediately splatter.

List of Drawings

Sai's

Tomoe Lion (
巴獅子
,
Tomoe Shishi
)
 - for attacking from a distance. They are usually created in small groups as Wild Lions (
乱獅子
,
Ranjishi
)
 to attack foes directly.
Hawk (
鷹
,
Taka
)
 - can be ridden for reconnaissance or high-speed travel. Smaller variants can be used to carry
explosive tags
 or be used to deliver messages.
Rat (
鼠
,
Nezumi
)
 - can swarm across an area to search for a target much faster than the user would be able to on their own. Being so small, the rats are inconspicuous, also making them suitable for covert message delivery.
Snake (
蛇
,
Hebi
)
 - can be used as ropes to restrain someone. With the ability to soundlessly enter through even the smallest crevice, they can also be used for assassination purposes.
Tiger
 - as with lions, this tiger be used to swarm a target and attack. Also used for
sealing
 his enemy.
Dragon (
龍
,
Ryū
)
, used in the anime's
Power arc
.
Bat,
 seen in the anime - can morph into a makeshift umbrella, or attach themselves to the enemy's face and blind them.
Fish, seen in the anime - Useful in delivering messages in water.
Leech, seen in the anime - Larger and heavier leeches can also be drawn.
Crab imitation of the
Gatekeeper
, seen in
The Last: Naruto the Movie
.
Cat, rabbit, and squirrel, seen in the
anime
.
Owl, seen in
Naruto Shippūden the Movie: Bonds
.

Inojin's

Dog.
Hawk, used for transportation and picking up objects.
Sparrow, used for distractions and delivering messages.
Lizard, used for intimidation.
Anomalocaris, used to detonate.
Shoebill, used for transportation.

Influences

This technique is in reference to the
Chōjū-jinbutsu-giga
 (lit.
Animal-person Charicatures
), or Chōjū-giga for short, a set of four picture scrolls belonging to the
Kōzan-ji Temple
 in Kyōto, Japan and sometimes credited as the first manga. The scrolls depict various anthropomorphic animals dancing and playing about in a lively ceremony, which seems to be the basis for Sai being able to animate his own drawings for various purposes.






Two different aesthetic designs used for the technique.



Inojin Yamanaka
's usage of the technique differs from his father's in terms of the aesthetic design. Unlike Sai's round drawings, Inojin's have sharp, straight lines. Inojin remarked that his father's sense of style appears to be "old-fashioned" compared to his own.
 Appropriately, his design is named Super Beast Imitating Drawing: Modern Era (
超獣偽画・現代
,
Chōjū Giga: Gendai
).

Trivia

According to both users of this technique, it does not work as well in rain.
 Despite this, in the anime, Sai was shown using this technique to create a fish and an umbrella.

In
Rock Lee's Springtime of Youth Full Power Ninja Chronicles
,
Rock Lee
 was able to paint mice with the head of
Might Guy
.
Tenten
 painted a large, "cute", humanoid bunny and panda bear. Sai still had to perform the technique to animate their drawings.

In the anime, Inojin uses coloured ink for his Super Beast Imitating Drawing creatures in addition to the black ink Sai uses.

In the anime, Sai noted that
Boruto Uzumaki
's passion and love of his drawings could possibly make him well-suited for this technique.

In the anime, because the drawings are animated with his chakra and move around, Inojin can use them to extend the range of his
Sensing Technique
.

In
Boruto: Two Blue Vortex
 chapter 9,
Nine-Tails
, Inojin's use of this technique is called
Super Beast Cartoon Drawing
 (超獣戯画,
Chōjū Giga
). Whether this is a mistake or a new jutsu is unknown.

See Also

C1

References