This article is about the Allied Shinobi Forces team.  For other uses, see
Surprise Attack
.

The
Surprise Attack Division
 (
奇襲部隊
,
Kishū Butai
,
Viz:
 Commando Unit) of the
Allied Shinobi Forces
 was a group of shinobi that were placed together as a battalion because of their skills at ambush attacks. They were led by
Kankurō
.

History

Ambush Division vs. Ambush Division






The entire Surprise Attack Division depart.



After its formation, the squad rides Sai's
ink birds
 into enemy territory.
 They eventually land in a dense forest where they decide to set up camp. Kankurō issues orders to the division members:
Omoi
 is to place traps around the perimeter;
Sai
 is to return to the air and be lookout;
Ittan
 is to make trenches with his
Earth Release
 techniques;
Tango
 is to construct a chakra transmission antenna;
Zaji
 and
Hoheto
 are to survey the area with their respective
sensory
 abilities;
Kiri
 is to assist Kankurō with formulating a battle strategy.

Soon after preparations are complete, Zaji detects the approaching
Muta Aburame
. Seeing that Muta is injured, Zaji rushes to his side to provide aid. Using his
Byakugan
, Hoheto informs the team that there is
explosive clay
 in the gourd on Muta's back.
Akatsuki
's
reincarnated

Surprise Attack and Diversion Platoon
 then reveals themselves to the Surprise Attack Division, with
Sasori

forcing
 Muta to restrain Zaji until the clay can explode. Kankurō is able to pull Zaji away in time while Ittan
lowers the ground
 to shield the rest of the team from the explosion.

Muta's teammates,
Ranka
 and
Tokuma
 - having also been captured by Sasori - are made to follow the Surprise Attack Division underground and attack them.
Shin
 joins them in this initial assault, although he is neutralised from above by Sai. When Shin recovers he begins sparring with Sai, all the while apologising to Sai - his "brother" - for being forced to fight him. Meanwhile, Omoi is able to
sever
 Sasori's control over Ranka and Tokuma, allowing Kiri to heal their injuries. This also gives Kankurō a chance to pull Sasori into the open. Sasori, exposed, begins to use Shin as a puppet and Kankurō brings out his
Sasori
 puppet in order to trade blows with him. Hoheto alerts him to the fact that there is Explosive Clay contained within Shin too, so Kankurō instructs Omoi to try and hit Shin with a
lightning
 technique to deactivate the clay.






Kankurō's Sasori puppet and Omoi attempt to attack Shin.



Although Omoi is unable to strike Shin, they are able to navigate him into a
concealed trap
 just moments before
Deidara
 detonates the clay. When the smoke clears, Sai is horrified to see Shin regenerating from his injuries, and Deidara promises to turn him into a bomb again and again. Enraged, Sai creates two
Benevolent Kings
 to attack Deidara and Sasori, propelling both straight into the clutches of Kankurō's puppets. Kankurō seals them within while Omoi plunges his lightning-infused blade into Deidara to nullify the rest of his clay.

Sai prepares to fight Shin again, but Shin tells him that there is no need; this encounter has allowed Shin to see Sai's drawing of the two of them, freeing his soul and allowing him to return to the afterlife. At the same time, Kankurō tells Sasori where he went wrong: he tried to live forever when in fact he is already immortalised through the puppets he left behind. Touched by this, Sasori's soul also returns to the afterlife, using his last moments to entrust his
Mother and Father
 puppets to Kankurō.

The War Begins

With one victory under their belt, Sai, Zaji, and Omoi are sent out to search for another Akatsuki cell. Taking to the air upon Sai's birds again, they come across a group consisting of
Haku
,
Zabuza Momochi
,
Gari
, and
Pakura
. They attack from above with
explosive tags
, but the revived ninja recover from their injuries. Realising they will need help, Zaji lights a red flare to request immediate assistance while Sai continues the barrage.
 Haku is able to destroy the birds they are riding, causing them to fall to the ground. The other three revived ninja move to finish them off, but the
Third Division
 arrives in time to save them.

Back near their base camp, the rest of the Surprise Attack Division is confronted by a restaffed Surprise Attack and Diversion Platoon. While Deidara - still captured - demands that these reinforcements free him, Kankurō orders a retreat.
 They are pursued by
Chiyo
,
Kimimaro
, and
Hanzō
, the latter of whom summons
Ibuse
 to exude a
Poison Mist
 that paralyses them. Hanzō then moves to finish them off but they are saved by
Mifune
. The
samurai
 of Mifune's
Fifth Division
 tend to the members of the Surprise Attack Division while Hanzō and Mifune do battle.

References