This article is about the Akatsuki team.  For other uses, see
Surprise Attack
.

The Akatsuki
Surprise Attack and Diversion Platoon
 (
奇襲陽動小隊
,
Kishū Shōdō Shōtai
) was formed by
Kabuto Yakushi
 during the outset of the
Fourth Shinobi World War
. The primary goal of the squad was to conduct an air raid on the
Allied Shinobi Forces
. The members were all reincarnated by Kabuto using the
Summoning: Impure World Reincarnation
 technique.

History

Ambush Division vs. Ambush Division

Immediately after the team's formation,
Kabuto Yakushi
 identifies both the reasons behind its creation and the inclusion of certain individuals to
Tobi
, noting that
Sasori
 and
Deidara
 will form the group's offensive component by utilising traps and bombs, while
Chūkichi
 and
Shin
 will function as
sensor
 and reinforcement respectively. However, Chūkichi's refusal to follow orders dictated by those allied to
Akatsuki
, leads to the swift erasing of his personality and results in the deceased Sasori contemplating how far the organisation has fallen. Commencing their aerial raid, the platoon locates its first victims in the form of the
Infiltration and Reconnaissance Party
, during their attempt to escape the
immediate area
.






The platoon on the move.



Engaging the obscured opposition with a barrage of devastating explosions, while an
Insect Jamming Technique
 disrupts both their vision and Chūkichi's
chakra
 sensing abilities, Deidara asserts that he'd expect nothing less from an advanced cell tasked with observation. A disorientated
Muta Aburame
 seemingly evades the prior assault and stumbles into the
Surprise Attack Division
's encampment but thanks to
Kankurō
's composure and
Hoheto Hyūga
's
Byakugan
, this circumstance is abruptly exposed as a devious trap orchestrated from afar.
Manipulated
 into grabbing a dazed
Zaji
, the captured Muta is brought into closer proximity with the division, where a substantial amount of volatile
explosive clay
 is then denoted. With their adversaries shrouded by the resultant cloud of debris, the role of perceiving their precise position is given to Chūkichi, which once successful, allows Sasori to conduct an attack using the
two

remaining
 members of the defeated Infiltration and Reconnaissance Party. As Shin prepares to join the deflected ambush, he is literally descended upon by
Sai
, who manages to break Shin's neck in the process. Recovering quickly due to his relative
immortality
, Shin regains his footing just as Deidara alerts their opponents to the fact that their human puppets are merely incapacitated and so still alive, before indicating that the victorious group in this conflict could set the tone of the entire war.

Resuming the fierce confrontation, an arrogant Deidara befalls
Omoi
's
deceptive strike
 that severs Sasori's ties influencing the platoon's previous victims, allowing Hoheto and
Tango
 to recover their exhausted forms. Exploiting this momentary opportunity, Kankurō dexterously attaches his own respective chakra threads to those belonging to Sasori, before utilising a forceful pull to bring his adversary down to the
rapidly rising earth
 below, in turn crushing a sufficiently disorientated Deidara. Commending his predecessor upon his evident improvement since their last encounter, Sasori appears unconcerned by the sudden presence of his former "
body
", instead preparing to embark into the dispute once again after his threads have attached to Shin. The manipulated
Root
 member clashes with the opposition, while the explosive contents of his stomach are divulged, only for him to be lured into a previously
concealed trap
 just moments before Deidara is able to detonate the bomb in Shin's abdomen. Hearing the resultant explosion, Chūkichi on route to find much needed assistance, pauses and looks behind him but presses onwards shortly after. A slowly awakening Sai, evidently angered by Deidara's proceeding referral to his brother as
"the bomb"
, grabs his scroll and brush, before defiantly challenging his current opponents. Appearing suddenly behind the dumbfounded foes, Sai creates two enormous drawings which hit both Deidara and Sasori, sending the pair flying straight into the clutches of Kankurō's puppets, where he uses a combination of his own
Black Secret Technique — Machine Triple Shot
 and Omoi piercing his lightning chakra infused blade into Deidara in order to prevent him from
self-destructing
. By this point Shin's soul had already begun to depart, freed from its enforced bind after observing Sai's drawing of them.

Told that his strength came from his soul, not in spite of it, and that the way he should have been immortalised was through the performances of the puppets he'd left behind, Sasori acknowledges Kankurō's words, despite Deidara fervent pleas to ignore these assertions. As his soul begins to return to rest, he calls out to Kankurō, entrusting his
Mother and Father
 puppets to him and leaving him with instructions to pass them on to the next generation.

The War Begins






Chūkichi arrives with essential reinforcements.



Chūkichi later establishes contact with another group of infamous reincarnated shinobi, where he notifies them of the need for further reinforcements.
 Returning to the destination of their previous battle, Chūkichi accompanied by
Chiyo
,
Hanzō
 and
Kimimaro
, faces Kankurō and his team. As the remnants of the Surprise Attack Division prepares for an immediate retreat, Hanzō suitably chastises Deidara about his capture.

References