The
Sword of Totsuka
, also known as the
Sakegari Longsword
 (
酒刈太刀
,
Sakegari no Tachi
,
literally meaning:
 Sake Cutter Longsword), is a variant of the
Sword of Kusanagi
. Being a spirit sword sheathed in a sake jar, its blade is unlike any other — rather than a conventional form, it is actually the liquid inside the gourd that is released and shaped into a blade.

Overview





Orochimaru being sealed after being pierced by the sword.



The Totsuka Sword is an ethereal weapon whose blade, emerging from a sake jar, is enchanted with a
sealing jutsu
. Those stabbed by the sword are swiftly drawn into the jar and trapped in a
genjutsu
-like "world of drunken dreams" for all eternity. Itachi was able to use the sword to completely remove the
Cursed Seal of Heaven
 from
Sasuke Uchiha
 when he extracted
Orochimaru
 from Sasuke's body and sealed him in the jar, and was also able to remove
Nagato
's soul from his body after
Kabuto
 used the
Summoning: Impure World Reincarnation
 to control him.

The sword can also cut through matter like a normal blade, thus granting a deal of versatility in how the blade is used. Being a variant of the Sword of Kusanagi, the sword can cut through almost anything, as seen when Itachi easily decapitated seven of the eight heads of Orochimaru's
giant snake form
.

Zetsu
 stated that Orochimaru sought the sword for all his life but could never find it.

Along with the
Yata Mirror
, the Sword of Totsuka is a weapon wielded by
Itachi
's
Susanoo
, with the gourd being held by a second hand growing from its right forearm, while the actual blade is wielded by its right, foremost hand.
Black Zetsu
 claimed that, together, these two weapons made Itachi's Susanoo invincible.

Influence

Totsuka no Tsurugi
 (
十拳剣／十束剣
,
literally meaning:
 Sword of Ten Fists/Handbreadths) is a descriptive noun given to many generic swords said to be 10 hands long, including in Japanese myth. Example are the
Ame-no-Ohabari
 (the sword used by
Izanagi
 to kill his newborn son,
Kagutsuchi
) as well as the
Ame-no-Habakiri
 (the sword used by the god Susanoo to slay the eight-headed and eight-tailed snake monster,
Yamata-no-Orochi
).

Trivia

The sword has been popularly mistranslated as a "perfect counter to the Kusanagi".

In the manga, the sword appears as an ethereal blade composed of liquid, but in the anime, it has a fiery appearance.

Itachi's Susanoo carries the Sword of Totsuka in a gourd. An ethereal weapon inside a gourd could be a reference to the hyōtan-kozō, a gourd spirit from Japanese folklore. This may also be a reference to how Susanoo used sake to get the Yamata-no-Orochi drunk before killing it with the Totsuka-no-Tsurugi.

In the anime, the final form of Sasuke's Susanoo was erroneously depicted with a gourd in its secondary right hand.

Itachi's complete Susanoo was shown wielding a dagger in the manga, while in the anime it looked like the Sword of Totsuka complete with the gourd.

In
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 4
, where Itachi gains the game-exclusive Complete Body — Susanoo form, the Sword of Totsuka also changes into a solid broadsword.

References