This article is about Sword of the Thunder God. For anime-only character, see
Raijin
.

The
Sword of the Thunder God
 is a
blade
 that was once wielded by
Tobirama Senju
.

History

After the Second Hokage's passing, this sword was sealed away in
Konohagakure
. It was later stolen during the reign of the
Third Hokage
 by
Idate Morino
 after
Aoi Rokushō
 deceived him with a promotion to
chūnin
. Aoi then took the sword for himself but lacked the knowledge on how to use the sword at its full potential. The sword also came with a scroll of instructions on how to properly wield it that Idate's older brother
Ibiki
 had stolen back from Aoi. During a
mission
 to sabotage the Todoroki Shrine race, Aoi wielded the Sword against
Team 7
, only for it to be broken by their combined efforts.

Appearance

The blade glowed bright yellow and was apparently infused with pure electrical energy, hence its name. The blade was unusual in that, though it appeared to retract into or emanate from the
hilt
 or
crossguard
 like a
lightsaber
 (and producing the same sound).

Abilities





The Sword of the Thunder God in use.



The sword itself had many uses that involved its ability to
manipulate lightning
. Being made of concentrated lightning, once making contact with the enemy, it would give them a strong electrical shock capable of incapacitating them afterwards. The sword was capable of producing rings of electricity that can paralyse the enemy while continuously shocking them; even magnetically suspend them mid-air. Defensively, the blade can channel its electrical properties in mid-air to block incoming attacks. As shown in Aoi's fight with Naruto and Sasuke, the blade was shown to not only be able to easily cut through any solid object, but also through chakra as well, including
A-rank
 techniques like the
Chidori
 and
Rasengan
.

Trivia

The hilt of the sword seems to resemble a
vajra
, mimicking the symbol of the blade's owner's
clan
.

Although an anime-only tool, this sword first appears in the video game
Naruto: Path of the Ninja 2
 by the name of
Raijin Sword
, with the description reading, "
Second Hokage's blade
". It is one of the secrets within the game and is unlocked by obtaining the Silver Blade Ticket and talking to
Shizune
 afterwards.