"
Tactics for Getting Along With Your Daughter
" (
娘とイチャイチャ大作戦
,
Musume to Icha Icha Daisakusen
) is episode 95 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Sakura
 and
Sarada
 hear Naruto's announcement of the
Parent and Child Day
 holiday on tv, and Sakura apologises for having to work that day. Sarada tells her not to worry, as
Sasuke
 isn't there either, and she promised to help
Boruto
 with shuriken training. She wonders where Sasuke is, unaware he is in
Konohagakure
. Boruto recognises Sasuke on the street, who asks him about all the family activities. Boruto explains the new holiday, Sasuke asks about
Naruto
, and Boruto adds he's with
Himawari
 today, before telling Sasuke where Sarada will be, and suggesting he spend time with her. Waiting by a stream, Sasuke thinks back to times he spent with his
father
, when he mastered the
Fire Release: Great Fireball Technique
. Sarada is surprised to find him. Sasuke explains he just got to the village, that Boruto told him where she'd be, and invites her to go to festivals. Sarada is happy that Sasuke came to the village, but he explains he dropped by because he had business to attend near the village, cutting down her excitement. Watching other parents with their children, Sasuke struggles to bond with Sarada.
 The two spot Naruto carrying Himawari as they search for a
Kurama
 doll, Sarada envious of their bond. He thinks back to how he enjoyed being carried by
Itachi
, and offers to carry her, but she finds it embarrassing and walks off.
Kakashi
 approaches Sasuke, pointing out all his time alone have dulled his social skills, and suggests Sasuke take hints from the
Icha Icha
 books. Sasuke comes across
Shino
 dotting on his Kurama doll, and after an awkward silence, he asks about Sarada. Shino comments on her talent and the difficult path she has chosen. Sasuke asks about any parasites on her, which Shino misunderstands as a negative comment on insects. When he talks to Sarada again, he tries using Kakashi's advice from the books, but ends up further antagonising her. Boruto finds Sarada training by herself, and asks her about Sasuke. She confesses she doesn't think her father knows her at all, but Boruto surprises her asking if she knows Sasuke at all, and that she should tell him if there's something she wants to do. Sasuke complains to Kakashi about his advice, and the two come across Sakura. At home, the two talk about how Sarada perceives Sasuke, and Sakura explains Sarada wants to be
Hokage
. He finds her training with shuriken, and explains that once he too wanted to be Hokage, but his version of it was warped until Naruto set him on the right path. Sasuke helps her with her shuriken training. On their way home, they come across Boruto, and Sarada gives him the same advice he gave her. At home, Naruto apologises to Boruto for having spent the whole day with Himawari, and gifts him the parent and child kunai set he bought at
Tenten
's shop. Boruto asks Naruto to train with him since it's still technically Parent and Child Day. At his home, Shino continues dotting on his Kurama doll.

Trivia

In a stall selling chibi style masks of the tailed beasts,
Matatabi
's mask is incorrectly coloured orange instead of blue.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Sasuke Uchiha
Noriaki Sugiyama
杉山 紀彰
Sugiyama Noriaki
Sakura Uchiha
Chie Nakamura
中村 千絵
Nakamura Chie
Kakashi Hatake
Kazuhiko Inoue
井上 和彦
Inoue Kazuhiko
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Himawari Uzumaki
Saori Hayami
早見 沙織
Hayami Saori
Shino Aburame
Shinji Kawada
川田 紳司
Kawada Shinji
Fugaku Uchiha
Kenji Hamada
浜田 賢二
Hamada Kenji
Itachi Uchiha (childhood)
Yuka Terasaki
寺崎 裕香
Terasaki Yuka
Sasuke Uchiha (childhood)
Nao Toyama
東山 奈央
Tōyama Nao
Father with daughter
Yo Tokinaga
時永 洋
Tokinaga Yō