This is an ability a
jinchūriki
 is able to perform when in a tailed form. The jinchūriki will use the raw
chakra
 of their
Tailed Beast
 to form arms, which they can freely manipulate to attack their foes, able to strike an opponent faster than even a
Sharingan
 user can react to.
 The chakra arms' hands are clawed while the rest of the arm seems to lack any kind of joint, thus allowing them to have flexible movements that will generally be impossible for normal arms. The user can create any number of arms that they desire and they can also serve other purposes such as grappling hooks, to either grab onto objects or enemies from great distances, for offensive means, as merely touching one of these can cause fatal burns, due to the Nine-Tails' seething hatred within its chakra (though this is not always the case). Due to having chakra attached to his body, the chakra arms can grow in size and from the
fourth tail
 up, Naruto, the arms, or any part of his body can divide into two or more fully operational appendages.

Killer B
 has also been shown to use this technique though instead of arms, he can form horns which he uses for his
Lightning Release: Lariat
 technique.

In his
Nine-Tails Chakra Mode
, Naruto can use the chakra arms to a greater extent, as he can use and release chakra arms from anywhere on his body on a small or large scale. These arms even have the power to crush stone without Naruto putting much thought into it.
 In the anime Naruto was able to crush a sword with a chakra arm just by tightening his grip.
 After some practice, he mastered the chakra arms, able to manipulate various stones and geometric shapes without crushing them.
 Now he is able to use them in an attempt to create a new technique: the
Tailed Beast Rasengan
 since he was advised by the
Eight-Tails
 against the use of
shadow clones
 in this form.
 Naruto's mastery of the Tailed Beast Chakra Arms is so great that he is able to
create several at once
 to launch attacks at several enemies, use them to
pull enemies into
 the attack, and even
create tiny ones around his finger
. The arms also grant him a greater level of dexterity and manoeuvrability out of what would normally be a helpless situation,
 such as guiding his Rasenshuriken during his fight against the
Third Raikage
. Not only that, Naruto can control each individual shroud he
gives out
 to protect his allies.

Trivia

Gaara
 never used a tailed beast chakra shroud form like Naruto and Killer B. He instead uses his sand control to shape existing sand into arms. He has shown
similar techniques
 when he does slip into his
Shukaku forms
.

In
Sakura Hiden: Thoughts of Love, Riding Upon a Spring Breeze
,
Magire
 and
Kido Tsumiki
 created a
Tailed Beast Drug
 that allowed them to use the Tailed Beast Chakra Arms.

In
Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Card Battle
,
Naruto
's powerful blows in
Jinchūriki Form
 are known as "Simple Strike" (
無造作な一撃
,
Muzōsana Ichigeki
).

See Also

Hands of Bonds

Hands of Flame

Monstrous Sand Arm

References