This article is about the technique. For the chapter, see
The Tailed Beast Ball
.

The
Tailed Beast Ball
 is the ultimate technique of a
tailed beast
, which can also be used by a
jinchūriki
 while
transformed
.

Overview






The gathering of positive and negative chakra.



Tailed Beast Balls are made from an 8:2 ratio of positive black
chakra
 (
+の黒チャクラ
,
purasu no kuro chakura
) and negative white chakra (
−の白チャクラ
,
mainasu no shiro chakura
).
 Users must gather and balance this chakra in their mouths,
shape
 it into a sphere (or a conical shape in the case of the
Ten-Tails
), and then fire it at their target;
Gyūki
 likens this to vomiting.
 Most users fire their Tailed Beast Balls as-is, while others may consume the ball and fire it from their mouth as a
beam
, focusing the attack on a narrower area instead of letting it detonate all around upon impact. Gyūki is even shown doing something in between, not consuming its Tailed Beast Ball yet still firing it out in a wave.
 There is no limit to how much chakra can be put into a Tailed Beast Ball so long as the 8:2 ratio is maintained:
Kurama
 has shown to be able to create a Tailed Beast Ball many times bigger than itself when using even a fraction of its chakra.
 Tailed Beasts can also combine their Tailed Beast Balls to form it into a very large one.

Tailed Beast Balls are incredibly dense, so much so that despite being suspended in the air, they instantly crater the ground beneath the user due to their extreme weight.
  Despite how heavy they are, they move at an incredible rate once fired. When used by the Ten-Tails, the Tailed Beast Ball was able to cross several miles in only a few seconds.
 Tailed Beast Balls are very destructive, creating explosions that are visible from incredibly far away and that vaporize almost everything in the blast area.
 The extent of the damage is dependent upon how the ball is fired and how much chakra it has. Its "standard" size is enough to easily vaporize mountains.
 The power of the Tailed Beast Ball is shown to even dwarf islands, however, Kurama and Gyūki have been shown to cause immense damage, such that the devastation dwarfed entire mountain ranges and could be felt across the continent. Tailed Beast Balls are comparatively weaker if a jinchūriki uses one without entering their
Tailed Beast Mode
, yet it is still potent enough to represent a serious threat to people and infrastructure.

Some jinchūriki are shown using Tailed Beast Balls in atypical ways. As the Ten-Tails' jinchūriki,
Obito Uchiha
 is able to form multiple Tailed Beast Balls at once via a tree he creates, each of which can fire in a different direction.
 Naruto, when using his
Nine-Tails Chakra Mode
, can form a Tailed Beast Ball with his hands, similar to how he makes the
Rasengan
.
 He can also add
natural energy
 to his Tailed Beast Balls, increasing their power and potency,
 while also allowing them to be used against
Truth-Seeking Balls
.
 In the anime,
Sora
 uses an entirely white Tailed Beast Ball while
transformed
 under the influence of the
Nine-Tails
' chakra.

Himawari Uzumaki
 is able to form a Tailed Beast Ball incredibly quickly from her mouth and hair which act like tails, making her resemble a miniature Kurama in her usage.

Being incarnations of the
Ten-Tails
, the sentient
God Trees
 have been shown to have the capability of using the Tailed Beast Ball. Unlike the tailed beasts and jinchūriki,
Jura
 formed a Tailed Beast Ball from his right
Rinnegan
.

Firing Methods

Fired as a ball.
Fired as a beam.
Fired as a wave.
Fired from an eye.
Fired from hair.

Video Games Variations

In
Ultimate Ninja Storm 2
,
Gaara
 is able to form
Shukaku
's head out of
sand
 and through it create a Tailed Beast Ball.

In
Ultimate Ninja Storm 2
, Gyūki performs a
Lightning Release

version
 of this technique.

In
Ultimate Ninja Storm 3
,
Saiken
 performs a
variation
 of this technique utilising
Utakata
's
Soap Bubble Ninjutsu
.

In
Ultimate Ninja Storm 4
, Naruto and Sasuke perform a variation of this technique wherein the Tailed Beast Ball is coated with Sasuke's
Amaterasu
 and the
Tailed Beasts' specific chakra types
 are added to the ball. This was used against
Madara Uchiha
's gigantic
Chibaku Tensei
.

Trivia

Minato Namikaze
 based the
Rasengan
 off of the Tailed Beast Ball.
Killer B
 observes that the process for forming a Rasengan is exactly the same as forming a Tailed Beast Ball, with its
chakra rotation
 acting as a substitute for the tailed beast form.

In the manga, the Tailed Beast Ball is formed from positive black chakra and negative white chakra, and the completed ball is black.
 In the anime, it is formed from positive blue chakra and negative red chakra, and the completed ball is purple.
 In some instances, it is depicted taking on a red colour upon being fired.

In
J-Stars Victory VS
, Naruto's Tailed Beast Ball uses the manga's colour scheme, but glows yellow upon being fired.

Shukaku is the only tailed beast not seen using a Tailed Beast Ball in the manga. However, it does so in an anime-only dream world created by the
Infinite Tsukuyomi
.

In
Ultimate Ninja Storm 2
,
Orochimaru
 is capable of using a similar attack when using his
Eight Branches Technique
.

In the anime, one of the Infinite Tsukuyomi's dream worlds depicts the
Demonic Statue of the Outer Path
 using this technique.

In
Sakura Hiden: Thoughts of Love, Riding Upon a Spring Breeze
,
Kido Tsumiki
 has access to the Tailed Beast Ball via the usage of his
Tailed Beast Drug
.

See Also

Giant Sphere

Tailed Beast Rasengan

References