The nine tailed beasts and their
Jinchūriki
 of the
Fourth Shinobi World War
.



The
tailed beasts
 (
尾獣
,
bijū
), sometimes referred to as "
Chakra Monsters
" (
チャクラのバケモノ
,
Chakura no Bakemono
),
 are the nine titanic living forms of
chakra
 created by the
Sage of Six Paths
 out of the chakra from
Earth
's
Ten-Tails
.
 They are differentiated by the number of tails they have, ranging from one to nine.

History





The young tailed beasts with the Sage of Six Paths.



Long before the founding of the
hidden villages
, the
Sage of Six Paths
 saved the world by sealing the
Ten-Tails
 into his body, becoming its
jinchūriki
. Some time later, the Sage was inspired by his youngest son,
Asura
, to use his
Creation of All Things
 ability to divide the Ten-Tails'
chakra
 into nine living entities, what would become the tailed beasts.
 The Sage named the nine and explained to them that a link existed between them despite their separation. He also foretold of a day when they would be brought together again — though not as they were — and that at that time someone would emerge to show them what true power is.
 In the anime, it was shown that before his death, the Sage and his followers built temples in nine different regions of the world where the tailed beasts could live and be protected.
 The tailed beasts were originally created not only to prevent the Ten-Tails' resurrection, but also to maintain and balance peace.
 The first person to come close to their original usage was
Hashirama Senju
, who had captured several of the tailed beasts with his
Wood Release
, distributed the beasts amongst the new villages in order to stabilise the balance of power between them. However, Hashirama's usage of the tailed beasts were forceful rather than earning their wilful cooperation.
 This method would be realised in Hashirama's successor as Asura's reincarnation,
Naruto Uzumaki
.

Over the centuries, humanity failed to recognise the tailed beasts as sentient individuals, instead seeing them only as demons, malignant spirits or mindless beasts worthy of fear and disdain. Because of their immense power, the tailed beasts were sought out by humans to be used as weapons in times of war. The beasts resented this treatment and came to hate humans, at times willingly becoming the monsters they were viewed as.
 In order to harness the beasts' power, the villages began sealing them into humans, creating their own jinchūriki.





The tailed beasts sharing their chakra with Naruto.



Decades later, after the
Third Shinobi World War
, an organisation known as
Akatsuki
 begins capturing the villages' jinchūriki in order to extract their tailed beasts and seal them into the
Demonic Statue of the Outer Path
 for the purposes of reviving the Ten-Tails. In order to revive the Ten-Tails, other tailed beasts had to be sealed in order.
 By the time of the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, Akatsuki has captured the first seven tailed beasts.
 In order to capture the last two, the
Eight-Tails
 and Nine-Tails,
Tobi
 seals the beasts back into their
reincarnated
 jinchūriki and forces them to fight the Eight-Tails' and Nine-Tails' jinchūriki:
Killer B
 and
Naruto Uzumaki
, respectively. From Naruto's determination to free them from Tobi and his desire to learn their names, the tailed beasts collectively decide that Naruto is the person the Sage of Six Paths foretold of. They give him portions of their chakra, enabling him to release them from Tobi's control.






The tailed beasts reunite with Hagoromo and Naruto.



Tobi is able to reclaim the freed tailed beasts and, using fragments of the Eight-Tails and Nine-Tails' chakra,
 to prematurely revive the Ten-Tails.
 Tobi then becomes the Ten-Tails' jinchūriki, but he is defeated by the
Allied Shinobi Forces
 and the tailed beasts are removed from his body.
 The nine tailed beasts join forces against Tobi's co-conspirator,
Madara Uchiha
, but he quickly defeats them all and seals them, including the Eight-Tails and Nine-Tails, into the Demonic Statue and reforms the Ten-Tails yet again.
 Madara becomes the Ten-Tails' jinchūriki and attempts to use
Infinite Tsukuyomi
 on the world. Naruto uses the tailed beasts' earlier donations of chakra to try and defeat him, but is unable to do so in time. Madara is afterwards unwittingly used to restore
Kaguya Ōtsutsuki
, who tries to take what portions of the tailed beasts' chakra Naruto still has.






The nine tailed beasts being freed from the Ten-Tails.



In one of
Kaguya's dimensions
, Naruto and
Sasuke Uchiha

seal
 Kaguya away and the tailed beasts are extracted from her body, ending the war. Sasuke, however, realising that the struggle for the tailed beasts started the war in the first place, imprisons them with
Chibaku Tensei
 and intends to kill them so the world can't fight over them any longer. Naruto convinces him not to in the end and the tailed beasts are finally released for good.
 The tailed beasts spread out through the world, free to live as they want; both Gyūki and Kurama decide to return and stay with B and Naruto. However, though they are apart, the tailed beasts' chakra fragments remain within Naruto, allowing his body to act as their "meeting ground".

Fifteen years after the Fourth Shinobi World War, during the investigation of the
Ōtsutsuki clan
 to find out Kaguya's final fate, two of them began to chase the tailed beasts in order to claim their chakra, starting with Gyūki and Kurama. While
Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki
 and
Kinshiki Ōtsutsuki
 were initially successful in steal an amount of the powers of the respective beasts by capturing their jinchūriki, both ended up being killed by being dominated by the combined power and effort of the Five Kage, Sasuke and
Boruto Uzumaki
.






The Tailed beasts in a meeting with Naruto during the threat of the Ōtsutsuki.



Sometime after the defeat of Momoshiki and Kinshiki, when
Urashiki Ōtsutsuki
 began targeting Shukaku for its chakra, it was deduced he was also interested in all the tailed beasts' chakra. Naruto then organised a telepathic meeting with the other tailed beasts, except for Matatabi, Kokuō, and Chōmei, who each refused to accept aid from humans in fear of being captured and used again by them, despite their trust in Naruto, and thus decided to skip the meeting. With the final defeat of Urashiki, the beasts that were being kept safe presumably returned to be free to go their own way.

Abilities






The tailed beasts performing their signature technique.



Tailed beasts are widely believed to be bestial in nature, incapable of the intelligence needed to fully utilise their immense strength. It is thought that only when sealed within humans are they able to benefit from the knowledge of their jinchūriki to use their powers effectively.
 Though this is not true of the divided tailed beasts, the Ten-Tails does make more wanton use of its powers, not focusing its abilities to the most advantageous end until sealed into a jinchūriki.

Each of the tailed beasts have their own unique abilities, but they all share the same core attributes: they have massive quantities of powerful chakra — coloured red — far greater than what most
shinobi
 have, can easily
transfer
 their chakra to whomever they choose,
 and can use the
Tailed Beast Ball
.
 Because the tailed beasts are pure chakra, they cannot permanently die; if they or their jinchūriki die, their chakra will re-form in time,
 usually taking up to hundreds to even possibly thousands of years before their rebirth.
 In addition, if a large portion of a tailed beast's chakra is separated from it, that chakra becomes a separate, sentient copy of a tailed beast.
 Using a life sacrificing power up such as
Baryon Mode
 will also have the Tailed Beast's physical form destroyed and die, but would not endanger the life of its jinchūriki.
 In Kurama’s case, it was able to revive after an unspecific time period in a younger form within the
daughter
 of its previous jinchūriki.
 Though she only became aware of the Tailed Beast's presence three years after Kurama's death, others could sense intensity from her years before.
 It is also pointed out that consuming the flesh of a tailed beast is usually deadly for anyone, unless the person is somehow descended from the Sage of Six Paths; in this case, the person will gain
abilities similar to a jinchūriki
.

Tailed beasts can
communicate telepathically
 with one another and their jinchūriki, and possess several levels of consciousness. In the initial level, the beast appears to be in a habitat of sorts, typically imprisoned in some way by whatever
fūinjutsu
 was used to seal them.
 The second level is where all the tailed beasts can convene and communicate with one another, free of any restrictions. Jinchūriki are also able to enter this level, but in order to do so, they must be completely linked with their tailed beasts.
 A freed tailed beast can continue communication with their former jinchūriki, even years after separating.
 Tailed beasts also have powerful healing capacities, able to mend injuries in themselves and others in seconds.

Although only shown with Kurama, a tailed beast will become unconscious if they have lost all of their chakra, by either using it, or having it drained from them.

It has been shown that Tailed Beasts can have more than one conscience or body, as in the Fourth Great Ninja War and onward, Shukaku to Chōmei are present in the real-world, and Gyūki was inside Killer B, while all eight were inside Naruto as well, where they hold meetings. Additionally, a single tailed beast can be forcibly split between a
Yin
 and
Yang
 half, and as previously noted can exist independently of each other as seen with Kurama.

The Tailed Beasts

The tailed beasts in order of their tail count, from one to ten:

Shukaku

Matatabi

Isobu

Son Gokū

Kokuō

Saiken

Chōmei

Gyūki

Kurama

Ten-Tails

Similar Cases

In
Naruto Shippūden the Movie: Bonds
, the
Zero-Tails
, despite having a numerical tail name and being referred to as a tailed beast in the movie, it is not an actual tailed beast as it has characteristics that are quite different from them.

In
Naruto the Movie: Blood Prison
, there is a
yōkai
 called
Satori
 that resides within the
Box of Ultimate Bliss
.

In
Road to Ninja: Naruto the Movie
, Kurama has a
Genjutsu World
 counterpart called the
Black Nine-Tails
, who is sealed within the body of Naruto's alternate self,
Menma Uzumaki
. Menma creates and controls living entities composed of its chakra known as the
Nine Masked Beasts
.

In
Naruto Jinraiden: The Day the Wolf Howled
, there is a legendary beast named
Rōen
. Though similar in size and power to a tailed beast, Rōen is merely an animal, driven by instinct instead of intellect.

In
Naruto Shippūden: Ninja Destiny 3
, there are three
masked beasts
 (
仮面獣
,
kamenjū
) featured in the game (like Matatabi and Isobu that have been featured in the game) that can be fought via
Beast Battle Mode
.

In
Naruto Shippūden: Dragon Blade Chronicles
, there are five giant dragons known as the
Genryū
, each possessing one of the five chakra natures. If all the Genryū are combined, they become the Light Genryū.

In
Naruto Shippūden: Kizuna Drive
, there is the
Three-Headed Guardian Beast
, guardian of
Yumegakure
 which, like the tailed beasts, is a living form of chakra.

In
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm Revolution
 (and two
anime

only
 episodes), there is a
Mecha-Kurama
, a mechanised version of Kurama.

In
Naruto: Uzumaki Chronicles 2
, the
Shirogane clans
'
Master Puppet
's chakra is said to be comparable to that of a tailed beast.

Trivia

Shukaku, Matatabi, Gyūki, and Kurama are based on popular animal
yōkai
 from Japanese myth (
tanuki
,
nekomata
,
ushi-oni
, and
kitsune
 respectively). The others are original creations by
Masashi Kishimoto
, mixing together various elements from certain species of animals.

Kurama even likens the true nature of tailed beasts to that of
yōkai
.

Shukaku is the only tailed beast that hasn't been shown giving its jinchūriki the characteristic red chakra-shrouds (
Version 1
 or
Version 2
 forms). This is presumably because Shukaku appeared early in the story when Kishimoto have not yet defined the specific abilities that all the tailed beasts share.

While most of the tailed beasts have conventional tails, Chōmei and Gyūki differ; Chōmei has one regular tail and six wings that make up its seven tails, while Gyūki has eight cephalopod limbs that serve as tails.

Shukaku and Matatabi are the only tailed beasts made from an inorganic material. Strangely, both were also believed to be a
living ghost
 (
生霊
,
ikiryō
). Jiraiya has described tailed beasts collectively as "ghosts" or "apparitions" (
妖魔
,
yōma
).

Despite having names, the tailed beasts do not generally use them, either for themselves or for each other, instead referring to each other by how many tails they have. Son Gokū is the only consistent exception, taking offence to the monikers.

Shukaku also refers to itself only by its name, however it doesn't bother to be called the One-Tail.

There have been cases that both the tailed beasts and their jinchūriki are affected to a certain degree during a full
moon
:

According to
Gaara
, Shukaku's blood-lust is especially strong during a full moon.

In the anime,
Blue B
, during his time as Gyūki's jinchūriki, noted that he would have trouble sleeping during the nights of the full moon, because anytime he would stare at it, it would reflect the loneliness in his heart. Gyūki would take advantage of those moments of weakness and try to gain control over Blue B's body. Blue B was also shown to take sleeping pills to help with this side-effect.

Several non-jinchūriki shinobi have been said to hold chakra levels or strength comparable to that of a tailed beast. Such individuals include
Madara Uchiha
,

Hashirama Senju
, the
Third Raikage
, the
Fourth Raikage
, and most notably, also dubbed 'The Tailed Beast without a Tail',
Kisame Hoshigaki
.

The Madara Uchiha's
Complete Body — Susanoo
 and Hashirama's
Wood Release: Wood Human Technique
 are said to have destructive powers that rivalled the tailed beasts.

In the anime, the six tailed beasts that were used by
Tobi
 shared a Japanese voice actor with one of each other's respective jinchūriki.

How the tailed beasts speak has been depicted inconsistently throughout the series, where sometimes their mouths move with their words and sometimes they don't.

Due to the death of its
jinchūriki
, Isobu is the first known tailed beast to have "died" and revived.

Years after the Fourth Shinobi World War,
Konohagakure
 and
Sunagakure
 make stuffed toys of Kurama and Shukaku, respectively. For Parent and Child Day, a limited-edition Kurama doll was offered, and toy stores in Konoha imported Shukaku dolls to sell for the holiday.
 In the anime, chibi-style masks of several of the tailed beasts were also on sale.

References