Throughout the series, several
shinobi
 —
jinchūriki
 or not — have demonstrated the ability to gain control of one or more of the
tailed beasts
. The cause and effect of this control varies between those capable of doing so. The only shinobi who have achieved complete control over tailed beasts are
Naruto Uzumaki
,
Minato Namikaze
,
Killer B
,
Hashirama Senju
,
Yagura Karatachi
,
Obito Uchiha
,
Madara Uchiha
,
Sasuke Uchiha
, and
Himawari Uzumaki
.

Jinchūriki





Killer B containing Gyūki's power in humanoid form.



The jinchūriki have the potential to control their tailed beasts' power, but require intense training and sheer willpower in order to properly wield it. According to
Gerotora
, whenever the jinchūriki draws out a certain amount of the tailed beasts'
chakra
, the beasts' very own psyche will fuse along with it, which usually involves an inner struggle between them as the jinchūriki goes deeper into their tailed beasts' forms. If a jinchūriki were to completely give into its influence, the seal will break and the tailed beast will be released.
 For the jinchūriki to have complete control, they must find something to fill in the void of loneliness within their hearts to give them strength.

While some jinchūriki, such as
Gaara
,
Yugito Nii
,
Fū
 and
Utakata
 (in the anime), had shown to use their tailed beasts' power to a certain degree, to the point of even fully transforming into them,
 their control over it was lacking compared to
Yagura Karatachi
,
Killer B
,
Minato Namikaze
, and
Naruto Uzumaki
, as they became the only known jinchūriki to have complete control.
 A jinchūriki who has full control over their beast possesses the best type of Tailed Beast Control, able to use all the beast's own abilities as well as enhance them with their own chakra, abilities, and ninjutsu, as well as control the output of the
Tailed Beast Ball
.





Naruto and Killer B in their Tailed Beast Mode.



Once the jinchūriki are on good terms with their tailed beasts, they can act as partners in battle. This advantage allows the jinchūriki to counteract
genjutsu
 without requiring another person to be present, as the tailed beasts can disturb their jinchūriki's chakra flow to break the genjutsu.
 They can also transform into their tailed beasts without losing control and are able use to their considerable abilities to the fullest extent. However, to achieve the full transformation, the tailed beasts and their jinchūriki must come to an agreement about trading certain amounts of their own chakra, otherwise, if the jinchūriki has complete control over the chakra but does not have the tailed beasts' own cooperation, the transformation will result in failure, and the tailed beasts will then gradually consume their jinchūriki's own chakra whenever they use the tailed beasts' chakra, which can kill the jinchūriki.

In addition of having a trusting relationship with one another, the jinchūriki can permit the tailed beast to switch control of their body at will, allowing the tailed beast to act and speak through them.

In the case of the Ten-Tails, it varies from person to person. The beast itself will wrestle with its host in an attempt to take over their body by destroying their mind, as witnessed by Obito who had to overcome this near-crippling mental battle to attain complete control of the beast. Once control is attained, their appearance changes drastically: in Madara's case, gains a chakra-based mantle which has six
magatama
 around the collar and a unique seal on the back. In Obito's case, the mantle was a part of his skin, which was covered in scales and gave him a more savage appearance. Along with this, nine orbs float behind them and they are able to manifest a
khakkhara
 as well.

Non-Jinchūriki





Hashirama suppressing Kurama with Wood Release.



Hashirama Senju
 could completely subdue the tailed beasts by forcibly suppressing their chakra with his
Hokage-Style Sixty-Year-Old Technique — Kakuan Entering Society with Bliss-Bringing Hands
,
 which utilises the power of his
Wood Release

kekkei genkai
.
 He was even noted to have had several of the tailed beasts under his control at one point in time.

Yamato
 would later also acquire this power due to his genetic alteration, however, by his own admission, he isn't able to use it to its fullest extent.
 Both
Madara Uchiha
 and
Obito Uchiha
 were able to use Hashirama's DNA that was integrated into them to exert control over the
Ten-Tails
 during the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, by using roots generated from their bodies to connect themselves to the beast.
 However the connection, as stated by Madara, was not perfect.

The
Mangekyō Sharingan
 has been noted to wield the power to control over the tailed beasts, but only Madara and Obito, have achieved this feat.
 Sasuke at first also used his Sharingan to suppress a small amount of Kurama's chakra within Naruto's subconscious.
 When Obito learned of
Danzō Shimura
's use of both Wood Release and Sharingan, he speculated that Danzō intended to control Kurama.
 However this method of control seems to be inferior to that of a Perfect Jinchūriki, since it turns the Tailed Beast into a mindless, unthinking animal being unable to use its other abilities as well as being unable to control the power output of the
Tailed Beast Ball
 or utilise the Tailed Beasts' other abilities. A Sharingan user that has controlled a tailed beast can also summon the tailed beast they have tamed. However, a
Summoning Technique
 performed this way has a severe time limit due to the immense chakra required to keep the tailed beast there. If they're forced into a fight, the Summoning Technique's time limit will be shortened even more. As such, they would not want to drag out a fight.






Obito using the power of both his
Rinnegan
 and
Sharingan
 to restrain Kokuō.



The
Rinnegan
 also has the ability to subjugate the tailed beasts by using its
Outer Path
 ability. This was displayed by Obito when he gained the Rinnegan, and used the combination of
chakra chains
 and
black receivers
 to bind the tailed beasts into their
reincarnated
 jinchūriki as well as manipulating their transformations.

Sasuke
 could use his Rinnegan to put all nine tailed beasts under his control with just a glance.

In the anime,
Yūkimaru
 was able to
partially control

Isobu
, the former tailed beast of Yagura Karatachi.

Another anime-only character
 was able to help Naruto regain control of himself after the latter had been subjugated by Kurama.

Trivia

In
Road to Ninja: Naruto the Movie
, a jinchūriki can also have full control over their tailed beast if they share their tailed beast's feelings. This is shown when
Menma
 shared the
Black Nine-Tails
' feelings of hatred and therefore became much more powerful with full control over it.

See Also

Jinchūriki Forms

Nine-Tails Chakra Mode

References