This article is about the team. For the animal species, see
Hawks
.

Taka
 (
鷹
), originally
Hebi
 (
蛇
), was a team created by
Sasuke Uchiha
 with the initial objective of locating
Itachi Uchiha
, and preventing anyone from interrupting Sasuke's battle with him.

Background

After betraying
Orochimaru
, Sasuke travelled to various
Otogakure
 bases to recruit his three teammates,
Suigetsu Hōzuki
,
Karin
, and
Jūgo
. After witnessing Itachi's death, and learning
Konoha
's role in the
Uchiha Clan Downfall
 from
Tobi
, Sasuke renamed the team "
Taka
" with the new goal to crush Konoha.






Taka searching for the Eight-Tails jinchūriki.



Although their team was originally one of necessity, they all came to respect each other as teammates and even risked their lives to protect one another as time went on, reminding Sasuke of
Team 7
. However, as Sasuke became more corrupt and focused in his revenge against Konoha, he abandoned Jūgo and Suigetsu in the
Land of Iron
 to pursue
Danzō Shimura
, and, when Karin was taken hostage, he critically wounded her, and also tried to kill her to avoid any trouble with her. Karin was saved by Sasuke's former teammates of
Team Kakashi
 and taken back to Konoha as a prisoner-of-war. While Karin states that she was finished with Sasuke and tries to escape from the Konoha prison, Jūgo and Suigetsu, not knowing what Sasuke did and tried to do to Karin, reunited with Sasuke and decided to assist him in determining if revenge or protecting Konoha was his true purpose. They were later met with Karin in Konoha, and she decided to rejoin them despite what had happened in the past.

Upon Sasuke's decision to protect Konoha, everyone, including a recently restored Orochimaru, participated in the Fourth Shinobi World War and sided with the Allied Shinobi Forces. When Sasuke was critically wounded, Suigetsu, Jūgo, Karin, and Orochimaru risked their lives to save him and found him being healed by
Kabuto Yakushi
. After the war, Taka permanently dissolved; Sasuke returned to Konoha and left for a journey of atonement, as well as having
a

family
 of his own, while the others returned to Orochimaru's hideout to work as his assistants.

Motives

Sasuke was initially driven by the desire to avenge his clan by killing
his brother
, and after learning the truth about his brother, avenging him by destroying
Konohagakure
. Suigetsu, Karin and Jūgo are not exactly fond of one another nor do they really enjoy each other's company. Each of them indicates having their own motive for joining the team upon its formation:

Suigetsu
: Initially joined Taka in order to encounter
Kisame Hoshigaki
 and take
Samehada
. His complete goal was revealed to be taking possession of all the
Seven Ninja Swordsmen of the Mist
's swords and reforming the organisation.

Karin
: Originally claimed to just be going in the same direction, although she was actually motivated by her infatuation with Sasuke.

Jūgo
: Considers Sasuke to be the only successor to
Kimimaro
, who was the only other person capable of calming his murderous impulse.

Missions

Kill Itachi

Status:
 Success

After Itachi slaughtered the
Uchiha clan
, Sasuke vowed to kill him and avenge his clan. This was the main goal of Hebi, which would later become Taka after Itachi's death. During Part I, when Itachi and
Kisame
 came to an inn that
Naruto
 and
Jiraiya
 were staying at to capture Naruto, Sasuke battled Itachi furiously only to have all his attacks deflected. After leaving his village to become stronger and train with Orochimaru, he later formed Hebi and at last found Itachi and battled him, though Itachi would die from an illness rather than his brother's hand. After, Tobi told Sasuke the true story about Itachi and how he was forced to kill his own clan. Sasuke changed the name of Hebi to "Taka" and decided their main goal would be to avenge Itachi.

Destroy Konoha

Status:
 Abandoned

After learning that the Konoha elders had forced Itachi to
slaughter
 the
Uchiha clan
, Sasuke vowed to destroy Konoha and avenge Itachi and his clan by "rebuilding" the Uchiha. During the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, Sasuke was
reunited
 with Itachi and was confronted by the previous
Hokage
, prompting him to wonder if revenge was the right answer. After hearing the reincarnated
Hashirama
's story about the meaning of being a shinobi, Sasuke abandoned his goal of destroying the village.

Capture the Eight-Tails Jinchūriki

Status:
 Failure

Upon joining forces with
Akatsuki
, Taka was assigned to capture the
Eight-Tails' jinchūriki
. After confronting and seemingly defeating Killer B, Taka took him and gave him to Tobi, but during the
sealing
 it was revealed that Killer B
faked
 his capture.

Kill Danzō

Status:
 Success

When Tobi informs Sasuke of
Danzō
's involvement in the
Five Kage Summit
, one of the elders responsible for orchestrating the Uchiha Clan Downfall, Taka heads out to the
Land of Iron
, led by
White Zetsu
. Suigetsu and Jūgo become separated from Sasuke and Karin after clashing with the
samurai
, the
Fourth Raikage
, the
Fifth Kazekage
 and their bodyguards and the remaining Taka members locate Danzō. Danzō flees and Sasuke is saved by Tobi from Ōnoki's
attack
. Tobi tracks down Danzō and strips him of his bodyguards so Sasuke can battle him alone. A healed Sasuke begins his battle with Danzō and successfully kills him, attempting to sacrifice Karin in the process.

Aiding the Allied Shinobi forces during the Fourth Shinobi World War

Status:
 Success

With his reincarnated brother's soul released, Sasuke
revives
 Orochimaru to help him reincarnate the previous Hokage to see whether he should continue his goal in destroying his home village. After hearing Hashirama's story, Sasuke decides to assist the
Allied Shinobi Forces
 in stopping
Madara
's
Eye of the Moon Plan
. Karin, who was formerly captive by the
Konoha Torture and Interrogation Force
, rejoins Taka after Sasuke apologises for his actions against her. Taka sets out, joined by Orochimaru and the reincarnated Hokage. Orochimaru, Suigetsu and Karin aid in healing
Tsunade
 and make their way back to the main battlefield to join Sasuke and Jūgo. Aside from Sasuke, who has allied himself with
Team 7
, all members of Taka, as well as Orochimaru and
Kabuto
, became trapped by the
Infinite Tsukuyomi
. Ultimately, they and the rest of the world were freed from the genjutsu by Naruto and Sasuke after they ended the war.

Trivia

Springtime of Youth

The
Springtime of Youth
 wiki
 has an article about this topic:

Taka

When resting atop
Madara
's statue in the
Valley of the End
,
Tobi
 wondered whether
Sasuke
, the next time the young
Uchiha
 "shedded his skin", would stay a "
snake
" (
蛇
,
hebi
) or turn into a "
hawk
" (
鷹
,
taka
).
 Madara, who Tobi was impersonating at the time, was stated to have the hobby of
falconry
. The team's name is connected to Tobi also through a Japanese proverb: "a hawk born from a kite" (
鳶が鷹を生む
,
tobi ga taka o umu
), meaning that an extraordinarily gifted child can be born from ordinary parents.

Three of the group members' eye colour matches with their hair colour: Sasuke Uchiha (black),
Karin
 (red) and
Jūgo
 (orange).

And the fourth member,
Suigetsu Hōzuki
, while not having eyes that match his hair, has an eye colour that matches the shirt he commonly wears (purple).

All of the members of Taka, when recruited by Sasuke, had an additional side story that only appeared in the anime. Through these, their abilities were shown earlier than in the manga.

Suigetsu had to retrieve his sword from
Tenzen Daikoku
. His
Hydrification Technique
 was shown.

Karin had a flashback of her helping Sasuke retrieve a group of escaped prisoners. Her
Mind's Eye of the Kagura
 technique was shown.

Jūgo had a flashback of being recruited by Kimimaro to join Orochimaru. His
Sage Transformation
 ability was briefly shown.

References