Takigakure
 (
滝隠れの里
,
Takigakure no Sato
,
literally meaning:
 Village Hidden by a Waterfall) is a village located in an unnamed country. Their current leader is
Shibuki
.

History

Around the time of the village's formation, the village tasked
Kakuzu
 with assassinating
Hashirama Senju
, the First
Hokage
. Facing the might of the
Wood Release
, Kakuzu returned in failure. Despite the insurmountable danger faced on this
mission
, what awaited his return to his village was the stigma and harsh punishment associated with the failure of his objective. In response to this treatment, a wrong levied against a shinobi who had put life and limb on the line for his village, Kakuzu came to hold a violent hatred for Takigakure as he escaped from imprisonment. In his flight from the village, Kakuzu killed the village elders, took their hearts, and fled with knowledge of the village's most prized
forbidden techniques
.

At some point, the village came into possession of
Chōmei
, making it the only known village outside of the five great villages to hold a
tailed beast
. In the anime, this feat is attributed to the village's reputation of frequently producing skilled
jōnin
.
 This tailed beast was sealed into
Fū
, who was eventually caught (by Kakuzu and
Hidan
 in the anime) and the beast extracted by Akatsuki, resulting in Fū's death. In the manga, based on what
Deidara
 told
Naruto Uzumaki
, Fū was possibly hated and neglected by her village, and that the citizens were glad that she was captured and killed. She was also one of the first two jinchūriki to be caught.





Takigakure's waterfall and surrounding area.



Takigakure wasn't shown in the manga, but in the anime, it is shown to be built around a large tree. It also, predictably, has a waterfall as a defining landmark. Despite being surrounded by four other countries, Takigakure has never been successfully invaded, a feat they are very proud of.
 The village is renowned for being able to produce
Hero Water
 every hundred years, which gives whoever drinks it ten times their ordinary chakra level; however, the strain of its use can prove fatal.

Locations

Hero Water Hiding Place

In the anime, the Hero Water was hidden in a small pavilion-like structure, situated deep within the large tree's roots, in the centre of the village.

Waterfall Caves

In the anime, in order to access the village, one have to go through a underwater cave system below the large waterfall. The cavesystem's exit leads into the large lake in the middle of Takigakure.

Village Head's Residence






The Village Head's Residence.



In the anime, Shibuki, the head of the village, resides in a small wooden hut, that is built near some trees, which has a sign with a kanji for
Taki
 (
滝
,
Taki
,
literally meaning:
 Waterfall) above the entrance. The interior seems to be rather spartan, as it doesn't contain much space or some necessary furniture, like a table or chairs, with the village leader sitting on a raised dais on the floor.

See Also

List of Takigakure characters

Trivia

In terms of the village's appearance, Takigakure seems to be based on mostly Southeast Asian aesthetics.

References