"
Target
" (
目標
,
Tāgetto
) is chapter 5 of the
Boruto: Two Blue Vortex
 manga.

Summary

In a flashback during the three years away from
Konohagakure
,
Boruto
 practises his
kenjutsu
. He takes a break with
Sasuke
 and asks about his progression. Sasuke acknowledges that he taught Boruto nearly everything he knows, and doesn't think there’s anything left to teach him, due to the boy's talent for being a quick learner. Sasuke compares Boruto's determination to
Naruto
's and finally understood why
Sarada
 asked him to protect Boruto, trusting that he and Sarada are the only ones who can resolve whatever is going on. At a later instance, Sasuke and Boruto fought
Code
 and his
Claw Grimes
, Sasuke slashing Code's left eye. Boruto wished to aid Sasuke, but he ordered Boruto to run, certain they were currently unable to defeat Code. He told Boruto to survive, build on what he taught him, and watch over Sarada, before channelling
Lightning Release
 through his sword and engaging the enemy. Boruto later returned to find several Claw Grime defeated, Sasuke stuck on a tree, and collecting his master's sword.
 In the present,
Konohamaru
 finds
Team 10
 by a tree that grew around
Moegi
, who was protecting a mother and child when she was bitten. Her students and Konohamaru vow to find a way to release her.
Matsuri
 can sense their sadness and rage.
Jura
 finds it to be proof of her individual awareness being stimulated, despite all of them being the same biological entity, who wishes to consume
Ōtsutsuki
.
Mamushi
 and
Hidari
 discuss the origin of their feelings. Jura wishes to devour Naruto, attributing the desire to eat a non-Ōtsutsuki to their differing evolution as God Trees.
Ada

watches
 them, as Jura instructs the others to listen to their inner desires to find personal targets. Matsuri determines Konohamaru is hers. Hidari asks Jura what they are. Jura considers it a reasonable, but ultimately meaningless question, placing more importance in what they do instead of what they are, finding action to be the cornerstone of their identities. Ada speculates that these God Trees were created by the chakra of those eaten by the Claw Grimes. Bug's God Tree perceives her watching them, and declares her to be his target, startling her during her meal with
Daemon
. Hidari declares his target is Sarada, Jura approving it.
Sumire
 discusses Boruto's return with
Amado
. Recalling his objective, Sumire asks if Boruto's death doesn't run counter to restoring his daughter. Amado understands her question and points out how curious it is that no one knows who modified
Kawaki
's body. He recognises his own work in Kawaki, as well as the
Kāma
 containing
Akebi
's information. This physical evidence contradicts his memory of events, leading him to believe his memory was tampered with. As Kawaki is the one with Akebi's information, he is not concerned with Boruto. Watching the conversation,
Sai
 asks
Shikamaru
's opinion on it. Sumire informs Sarada of Amado's awareness of his memory being changed. Boruto approaches them, telling him Sasuke doubted his own memories to save him because of Sarada. She hugs him, telling him he's late and calling him an idiot. Boruto apologises and says he's home.