"
Team 7: The First Mission!
" (
第七班・初任務!!
,
Dainanahan: Hatsuninmu!!
) is episode 40 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Boruto
 joins his team on his way to the Hokage's office, where they're to be assigned their first mission. When
Konohamaru
 explains that as new shinobi fresh from the
Academy
, they'll only receive low-rank missions at first. Boruto thinks they should just get those missions over with, so they can get higher ranked missions.
Naruto
 overhears him and says no missions is something one just get over with. Their first mission is to expel bandits from a small village called
Green Banks
. Due to a drought, both Green Banks and neighbouring farming villages have had poor harvests, and Green Banks is having its food stolen from storehouses. Boruto still thinks the mission to be easy, and when Konohamaru says the team should take the assignment more seriously, angering
Sarada
 for lumping her with Boruto. Naruto tells them that even as a D rank mission, it is important and that they should give it their all.
 At home, Boruto asks
Hinata
 about her first mission. She recalls being nervous back then, as there were wars, and missions were more dangerous. She tells him his first mission isn't really something to be excited about. Team 7 departs for their mission. Naruto tells
Shikamaru
 he has filled Konohamaru in on the details of the mission and remembers
Shikadai
 is also having his first mission. His mission is to escort a rich lady around. Shikadai and
Inojin
 carry her purchases, while
Chōchō
 engages in conversation with her. On the way to Green Banks, Sarada tells Boruto not to do anything that would reflect poorly on her record, as not to hinder her path to becoming Hokage. As the two bicker,
Mitsuki
 comments they get along well; angering both. Konohamaru stresses the importance of what Naruto told them and adds that they should not try resolving things on their own. A rustle nearby gets the genin on edge, but it's just a wild boar, and Konohamaru comments they have a long way to go if they get startled so easily. They reach a suspended bridge to Green Banks and ring a bell to announce themselves. Kiri sees they're children and doubts their skills, but lowers the bridge nonetheless. Team 7 is informed of the recent passing of the previous village leader around the time the attacks started, and that his daughter has taken over his position. They're introduced to Kiri, who informs them that as they've been able to deal with bandits on their own for a while, other villages have also hired shinobi. Konohamaru asks the genin to speak with Kiri in private. Konohamaru tells Kiri that conflict with other shinobi would make it at least a B rank mission, which he believes the genin are not prepared for. While the three discuss the implications of not completing the mission, they hear a commotion, find an enemy shinobi has killed a villager and Boruto engages in combat. Konohamaru interferes when Boruto is attacked, and Ashimaru is told to retreat. Konohamaru tells Kiri to be honest with them, as they can't make a strategy without knowing that the other village is really after. Kiri reveals they want the deed to the bridge. The enemy shinobi are informed about Konoha's involvement. At night, they attack again by setting one of the houses on fire. Boruto saves a villager from being attacked and other villagers start attacking them. Konohamaru determines they're being controlled with
genjutsu
. The villager Boruto saved holds Kiri hostage. Sarada tries locating the genjutsu user with her
Sharingan
, but fails. Mitsuki uses his
Wind Release
 to knock down the controlled villagers, figuring anyone strong enough to resist it should be the enemy shinobi. All the villagers are knocked down, and Boruto notices Kiri has been taken, determining the one who got her must be working with the enemy. Konohamaru scolds Boruto for acting on his own without warning.

Trivia

Green Banks is said to be located near the border of the Land of Fire and the Land of Wind. However, those two countries
do not share borders
.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Amanda Celine Miller
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Cherami Leigh
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Robbie Daymond
Konohamaru Sarutobi
Hidenori Takahashi
高橋 英則
Takahashi Hidenori
Max Mittelman
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Maile Flanagan
Hinata Uzumaki
Nana Mizuki
水樹 奈々
Mizuki Nana
Stephanie Sheh
Himawari Uzumaki
Saori Hayami
早見 沙織
Hayami Saori
Melissa Fahn
Shikamaru Nara
Shotaro Morikubo
森久保 祥太郎
Morikubo Shōtarō
Tom Gibis
Shikadai Nara
Kensho Ono
小野 賢章
Ono Kenshō
Todd Haberkorn
Inojin Yamanaka
Atsushi Abe
阿部 敦
Abe Atsushi
Spike Spencer
Chōchō Akimichi
Ryoko Shiraishi
白石 涼子
Shiraishi Ryōko
Colleen O'Shaughnessey
Kiri
Yuki Kaneko
金子 有希
Kaneko Yūki
Cristina Vee
Matsuba
Takuya Kodama
児玉 卓也
Kodama Takuya
Christopher Swindle
Hidari
Eiji Takeuchi
竹内 栄治
Takeuchi Eiji
Billy Kametz
Ashimaru
Ryunosuke Watanuki
綿貫 竜之介
Watanuki Ryūnosuke
Aaron LaPlante
Iori
Taisuke Nishimura
西村 太佑
Nishimura Taisuke
Ben Diskin