Team Minato
 was a team led by
Minato Namikaze
 and composed of
Kakashi Hatake
,
Obito Uchiha
, and
Rin Nohara
.

History

In the anime, Minato gave his students the
bell test
 after the team's formation in order to test their abilities. The team later participated in a
Chūnin Exams
 held in
Konoha
, but only Kakashi was successfully promoted to
chūnin
 at that time.

During the
Third Shinobi World War
, Team Minato was assigned to destroy the
Kannabi Bridge
 in
Kusagakure
 in order to cut off
Iwagakure
's supply line in its war with Konoha. Kakashi, recently promoted to
jōnin
, was given leadership of the mission while Minato assisted the war effort elsewhere. Rin was captured by Iwa-nin during the course of the mission and Kakashi and Obito successfully rescued her. However, their escape was impeded by a
cave-in
 and Obito's body was crushed by the falling boulders, rendering him unable to move. With other Iwa forces approaching, Obito gave his left
Sharingan
 to Kakashi as a gift and then bade him to escape with Rin. They did so and Minato arrived in time to help fight off the Iwa-nin, but it was too late for them to save Obito. Minato helped them destroy the bridge before they returned to Konoha to mourn his loss.

During another mission during the War - one where Minato was again away from his students - Rin was kidnapped by
Kirigakure
 and made the
jinchūriki
 of the
Three-Tails
 so that she could be used to destroy Konoha after she was inevitably rescued. When Kakashi finally did rescue her, she informed him of this and tried to convince him to kill her in order to protect the village. Kakashi refused and focused instead on fighting off the pursuing Kiri forces. Rin leapt in front of him during one of these attacks, causing her to die by Kakashi's
Chidori
. Kakashi passed out from the ordeal and the remaining Kiri forces were all ultimately slaughtered by the watching and still-living Obito, who had watched Rin die at Kakashi's hand.






The remaining members of Team Minato during the Fourth Shinobi World War.



With Rin dead, Obito reportedly sharing the same fate, Minato becoming
Hokage
 (and later
dying

himself
), and Kakashi at some point entering the
Anbu
, Team Minato ceased to be. In the years that follow, Obito becomes determined to reform the team under happier circumstances using the
Infinite Tsukuyomi
, a determination that leads to the
Fourth Shinobi World War
. He has a change of heart towards the end of the War, but Team Minato is still reborn in a sense, with Obito, Kakashi, and a
reincarnated
 Minato joining forces to save the world from
Madara Uchiha
 and later
Kaguya Ōtsutsuki
. Obito, upon his actual death, even meets with Rin before he enters the
Pure Land
, and from her words of encouragement Obito's spirit briefly returns to the living plane to render assistance to Kakashi one final time.

Trivia

The team makes a cameo before their actual introduction in
chapter 122
 and
Naruto
 episode 72
 during a flashback of the
Third Hokage
, and on the cover of
chapter 16
.

Kakashi noted many times that
the current team
 he looks after shares similar dynamics to his childhood group due to the fact that Naruto and Obito both wished to become Hokage while both Obito and Naruto had a long-standing rivalry with Kakashi and Sasuke as well. The resemblance is furthered with a photograph of Team Minato being nearly identical to the photograph of Team 7.

Kakashi Hatake is the only member of this team to have never become a
jinchūriki
.

References