This article is about a species of seed.  For other uses, see
Ten-Tails (disambiguation)
.





A Ten-Tails.



Ten-Tails
 (
十尾
,
Jūbi
) are creatures of living
chakra
 that act as the seedling stage in the life cycle of a
God Tree
, and are used by the
Ōtsutsuki clan
 to assist in their own evolutionary process by harvesting chakra and genetic data from the planets they invade. Ten-Tails are purely driven by the instinct to devour chakra and will indiscriminately eat any living creature they encounter until they consume an
Ōtsutsuki
, whose chakra will trigger their evolution into a God Tree, at which point their tails will burrow into the planet like roots and begin absorbing the chakra and blood of all living beings that dwell upon it, eventually producing a chakra fruit, which is itself a highly concentrated mass of chakra and genetic data. The quality of the fruit that would be produced is determined in part by the strength and health of the Ōtsutsuki being offered as a sacrifice.

Though this act would normally prove fatal to the devoured Ōtsutsuki, the clan has developed a process of reincarnation through
Kāma
 that allows them to prepare a vessel for their soul beforehand and later resurrect to harvest the fruit, which they consume to evolve. In most cases the process leaves the planet a lifeless husk and the Ōtsutsuki move on to another world; by repeating this process many times they continually evolve in pursuit of achieving godhood. Because of the way in which the Ōtsutsuki use these Ten-Tails,
Amado
 has referred to the clan as a species of parasites.

The juvenile Ten-Tails specimen that originally belonged to
Isshiki Ōtsutsuki
 underwent a unique form of evolution due to being tampered with by
Code
, who forcibly divided it into a host of
Fission Beings
 using his
Claw Marks
. The resulting creatures, dubbed Claw Grimes, would transform into trees (
木
,
ki
) upon devouring a human being, leaving the victim alive but comatose and encased within the tree's trunk. Eventually the chakra absorbed by these trees resulted in the Ten-Tails producing humanoid God Trees bearing the visages and abilities of its victims. While still sharing a collective identity as a God Tree, each began to develop self-awareness and an individual identity, with their base instinct to consume chakra being partially overridden by an appetite for knowledge and new experiences, and an instinctual desire to devour an individual deeply connected to the victim from whom they spawned. One individual in particular dubbed itself
Jura
 and took on a leadership role within the group of emerging self-aware God Trees. The exact trigger for this unique God Tree evolution remains unclear, as the Ten-Tails never devoured an Ōtsutsuki, but
Boruto Uzumaki
 speculated that it could stem from Code's White
Kāma
, which was essentially a mass of Isshiki Ōtsutsuki's essence.

Known Specimens

The
Ten-Tails
 used by
Kaguya Ōtsutsuki
, later split by
Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki
 to create the
nine Tailed Beasts
.

The
Ten-Tails
 kept in
Kara's dimension
, initially under the control of
Isshiki Ōtsutsuki
, it was later passed down to
Code
.

Trivia

Unlike others, the Ten-Tails utilised by Kaguya Ōtsutsuki did not completely drain the planet dry even after producing a chakra fruit for Kaguya to consume. Why this occurred instead remains unknown.

References