This article is about the shinjutsu. For the chapter, see
Ten Directions (chapter)
.

Ten Directions
 is a shinjutsu that was used by
Shibai Ōtsutsuki
. It enables the user to see into the future. Not only does this allow foresight, it also shows multiple possible futures.

Usage

Amado Sanzu
 had integrated Shibai's cells into the Inners of
Kara
, along with
Ada
 and
Daemon
, with the intention of them using his shinjutsu. While the siblings were able to use his shinjutsu, none of the Inners (except for
Code
) have shown any signs of awakening his abilities.

At the brink of death during his battle with
Isshiki Ōtsutsuki
,
Koji Kashin
 had awakened Ten Directions, allowing the former Inner to foresee future events. Having seen
Omnipotence
 being cast before it had happened, Koji used this vision to deduce the phenomenon had altered his memories of
Boruto Uzumaki
 and
Kawaki
, which he managed to figure out that Boruto has always been the real son of the
Seventh Hokage
 when he was born. Three years later, Koji would become partners with Boruto and using the Ten Directions, the future knowledge he gained from the shinjutsu had helped Boruto accelerate and improve his training. By teaching him all the skills and techniques he would learn in different potential futures.

Ten Directions' ability does not appear to make Koji all-knowing, rather it requires him to have some pre-existing knowledge for him to receive "updates"; Koji saw no future where Boruto would survive his encounter with Jura if he saved Konohamaru from Matsuri, but shortly before Kawaki appeared to save Boruto, it was then when he saw a new future in which Kawaki’s intervention occurred. Furthermore, Koji stated this "update" was the result of Boruto telling Kawaki about his limiters without Koji's knowing.

Foreseen Futures

Because the future is not a straight path, Ten Directions gives the user many alternate possibilities of what could be the future. The following are the visions that Koji had foreseen:

During his fight with Isshiki, Naruto was killed. Isshiki would then successfully reincarnate through Kawaki's
Kāma
 and use
Boruto
 as the sacrifice for the
Ten-Tails
 to plant the
God Tree
, resulting in the end of the world. This future was avoided.

After sealing Naruto and
Hinata
 away with
Daikokuten
, Kawaki successfully killed Boruto and
Sarada
, when she tried to defend him. Omnipotence is not cast by Ada, resulting in Boruto and Kawaki's lives never being swapped in everyone's memories. This would lead to Kawaki being forced to defect from
Konohagakure
, where defeated by
Code
 and used as the sacrifice for the Ten-Tails. This future was avoided.

In nearly all outcomes, the
Claw Grimes
 breaks free of Code's control and evolves into multiple sentient God Trees.

In very few outcomes, Boruto successfully prevents the Claw Grimes from evolving into the
Human God Trees
.

In most outcomes, Boruto is killed by
Jura
 and Kawaki is devoured by the Ten-Tails. The God Tree is grown.

In very few futures, Boruto manages to defeat the Sentient God Trees and Code, thereby saving the world.

Six years after Boruto's defection from Konoha, he creates his own
variation
 of the
Flying Thunder God Technique
. This was accomplished five years early thanks to Koji's knowledge of the future.

Yodo
 dying against the
Human God Trees
, resulting in
Sarada Uchiha
 re-awakening her
Mangekyō Sharingan
.

Against the Human God Trees,
Konohamaru Sarutobi
 is killed and consumed by
Matsuri
. This is avoided by Boruto's aid.

Boruto joins the battle to aid
Team 7
 and
Team Shinki
 struggle against the Matsuri and
Ryū
. This results in Jura showing up and killing him. This was avoided when
Kawaki
 arrived to aid Boruto. This future did not appear in any of Koji's visions until a few minutes before it actually occurred. This change, however, resulted in
Mamushi
 beginning to hunt Ada in order to devour her ahead of schedule.

In revenge for
Himawari Uzumaki
 being killed by the Human God Trees,
Inojin Yamanaka
 masters a new technique. Upon learning of this coming event, Inojin resolves to master the technique much sooner.

Sumire Kakei
 creates a new, more advanced form of
Scientific Ninja Tools
. This is instead handed to her by Boruto after Koji foresaw this and wrote the plans down himself.

Trivia

Koji believes that the more people are foretold of a specific future, the more the nature of said future would change, as the people would be unable to act the same way as they did not know. Instead, it would lead to new potential futures to be branched complexly and unpredictably, to the point of nullifying the advantages of the foresight.

Influence

In
Buddhism
, the expression "Ten Directions" refers to a concept of comprehensiveness and totality that is often used to describe the entirety of the universe and the reach of the
Dharma
, the Buddhist teachings. The "Ten Directions" include the eight
cardinal points
—north, south, east, west, northeast, northwest, southeast, and southwest—along with up and down, representing the totality of space. This concept is used to illustrate the idea that the Dharma is universal and encompasses all areas of existence and experience. It is a way to emphasize that Buddhist teachings are relevant and applicable to all aspects of life and the cosmos.

See also

Future Telling

Senrigan