This article is about the energy vessel. For the dōjutsu, see
Tenseigan
.

The
energy vessel
 (
エネルギー体
,
Enerugī-Tai
), also referred to as "
Hamura Ōtsutsuki
's
Tenseigan
", is used by the members of the
Ōtsutsuki clan
 living on the
Moon
. According to
Retsu no Sho
, Hamura created the energy vessel so that, after a thousand years, its accumulated power could be used to help the inhabitants of
Earth
.

Hamura made the energy vessel by removing all the Ōtsutsuki clan's
Byakugan
 and clustering them together, a practice that continued in the centuries following Hamura's death.
 The energy vessel helped the Ōtsutsuki colonise the Moon, provided light to the interior surface where they lived, and powered the
puppets
 and other contraptions that facilitated them. During the Ōtsutsuki clan's civil war, the clan's branch families used the energy vessel as a weapon to defeat the main family. One thousand years after Hamura's death,
Toneri Ōtsutsuki
 - misunderstanding Hamura's intentions for the energy vessel - uses it to move the Moon toward the Earth in order to wipe out those living there.

The Byakugan that make up the energy vessel are stored within a golden sphere that is made to resemble an eye, specifically the Tenseigan-
dōjutsu
. Because of its connection to Hamura, the Ōtsutsuki clan revere the energy vessel as a religious object. In order to protect it, it is hidden away and only made accessible for special circumstances, such as weddings between those of high social standing. Its exact location is hidden behind a
barrier
 so that it can't be found, though this in turn means it can be found from the void the barrier creates. A
jujutsu
 is placed on the energy vessel so that only Hamura's descendants can make direct contact with it; if anyone else tries to touch it, their
chakra
 will be
absorbed
.

Hinata Hyūga
, a descendant of Hamura, attempts to destroy the energy vessel at the request of Hamura's spirit so that its power won't be misused. Although she's able to touch the vessel, she lacks the strength to damage it. She
combines
 her strength with that of
Naruto Uzumaki
, allowing them to break the energy vessel apart, thus disabling all systems that it powered. The Byakugan stored within the energy vessel disperse throughout the area and are subsequently lost into space.

References