This article is about the dōjutsu. For the energy vessel, see
Tenseigan
.

The
Tenseigan
 (
転生眼
,
literally meaning:
 Reincarnation Eye) is a
dōjutsu
 introduced in
The Last: Naruto the Movie
. The movie's novelisation explains that the Tenseigan can be acquired when an
Ōtsutsuki
 is implanted with the
Byakugan
 of a
Hyūga
: this combination of the two clans'
chakra
 transforms the Byakugan into Tenseigan.
 When
Toneri Ōtsutsuki
 implants himself with
Hanabi Hyūga
's Byakugan, the transformation takes several days to complete. As the transformation advances, Toneri experiences increasingly painful pulsations in his eyes that subside with rest.

When the Tenseigan is finally achieved, the ordinarily featureless white Byakugan gain blue pupils filled with what resemble overlapping white flower patterns. Toneri plans to use these Tenseigan to destroy the
Earth
 by colliding the
Moon
 into it, and after the Earth's population is wiped out Toneri would use his Tenseigan to revive the planet anew. Before he can follow through on these plans, he is drawn into combat with
Naruto Uzumaki
. Toneri uses his Tenseigan to animate a gigantic
golem
 that he directs against Naruto. He also enters
Tenseigan Chakra Mode
, giving him several
Truth-Seeking Balls
 as well as the ability to fly. Although the Tenseigan Chakra Mode's power enables Toneri to do extensive damage to the Moon's surface, the form itself is fragile, dispelling after a single punch to the face from Naruto; when this happens, Toneri's Tenseigan also revert back to Byakugan. The Byakugan are immediately afterwards removed from him.

The Last: Naruto the Movie
 makes several mentions of
Hamura Ōtsutsuki
's Tenseigan, but most or even all of these turn out to be in reference to an
energy vessel
 with the same name. A passage in the movie's novelisation can be read as the energy vessel having been created after Hamura's death, to preserve the power he wielded in life. Conversely,
Retsu no Sho
 states that the energy vessel was created while Hamura was alive and at his direction.
 As such, it is unclear whether or not Hamura possessed the dōjutsu version of the Tenseigan, and if he did, what he used it for.

References