This article is about the chapter. For the volume, see
The Right Job for Idiots and Bastards
.

"
The Right Job for Idiots and Bastards
" (
馬鹿と鋏とクソ野郎
,
Baka to Hasami to Kuso Yarō
) is chapter 58 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 manga.

Summary

Naruto
 shows
Boruto
 the medicine
Amado
 developed and explains what they do and don't know about it, like what it can't do and what it might do to halt Boruto's transformation. He stresses that because they don't know if there are side-effects and that he might die from it, it's Boruto's decision whether or not to take them, so he should consider it carefully. Boruto examines the pills, noting their lack of smell, and nonchalantly takes one. He comments on their lack of taste and being able to take them dry, and asks Naruto how many he should take a day. Naruto is startled by how quickly Boruto made his decision. Boruto reasons that they won't know if there side-effects unless he takes them, and adds that he has been prepared for a worst case scenario for a while, which is why he was able to decide so quickly. Later at training, Boruto tells his team-mates about the meds, and
Kawaki
 criticises him for jeopardising the plan to brand
Code
 with his own
Kāma
. Boruto points out that's a hypothetical scenario, and that they have a chance of winning against him the normal way.

Sarada
 tells them to stop arguing and focus on training. Naruto and
Konohamaru
 watch them, the latter commenting on Kawaki's lack of team spirit. Kawaki continues arguing, this time with Sarada as well, and Boruto reminds him he's the one who asked to be taught
ninjutsu
. Kawaki clarifies he finds the traditional training to be inefficient, so
Mitsuki
 asks him what he suggests. Kawaki proposes something simpler, and attacks Mitsuki, who
blocks
 him, noting that the suggestion is training through actual combat, which he doesn't mind. Konohamaru prepares to intervene, but is stopped by Naruto, who asks him keep watching. Sarada complains that no is listening to her, who is their team captain. Kawaki reveals that most of
Jigen
's lessons were combat drills, and when he finally decided he wanted to strength to kill him, that's when he started improving. Mitsuki dodges his attack, so he turns to Sarada, who attacks him with
Fire Release
. He blocks it, and feints her with a
shadow clone
. Boruto blocks his attack, and tells Sarada he wants to deal with it. Mitsuki understands that Boruto wants to bet the way they train on this fight, which Kawaki agrees to. The two begin, with Boruto using shadow clones, one of them putting Kawaki in position for Boruto's
Rasengan
. Kawaki launches parts of his
transformed arm
, but that Boruto is also a clone. He sends a blast at Boruto, who absorbs it with Kāma. Boruto uses
Lightning Release: Thunderclap Arrow
, which Kawaki instinctively tries to absorb, but realises he no longer can, and is defeated. Kawaki chastises himself for being weak. Boruto approaches, and tells him not to carry it all on himself, and to lean on his team. He adds that Kawaki isn't responsible for
Kara
 targeting Naruto or the
village
, and they can't let the bad guys do whatever they want. Naruto and Konohamaru comment on Boruto's maturity. Kawaki wishes Boruto's words came from someone more reliable and agrees to doing things their way. Sarada and Mitsuki comment on his bad attitude. Naruto thinks of how strong they can get. Boruto corrects Kawaki, saying they're the ones putting up with him, and wants to resume training. Kawaki is determined to get stronger.