"
The Ultimate Recipe
" (
極上のレシピ
,
Gokujō no Reshipi
) is episode 256 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Teams 7
 and
10
 have a meal at
Lightning Burger
.
Chōchō
 explains that while Team 7 was in the
Land of Water
,
Shikadai
 was selected for a
mission
 with another team, so she and
Inojin
 have just been on standby.
Boruto
 and
Sarada
 reason that Shikadai's reputation also depends on his team's. Inojin and Chōchō become concerned they're holding Shikadai back, and that he should partner up with more varied and experienced shinobi.
Suika Kannonji
 gives them a mission of apprehending a
Kumo

missing-nin
 named
Jingo Kumano
, who according to the
Konoha Barrier Team
 is hiding in the village and procuring all sorts of weapons. Chōchō and Inojin are asked to take the mission by themselves while Shikadai is with other shinobi investigating thieves looking to acquire top-secret data. They find Jingo making a purchase at
Ninja Tools Roll Roll Roll
, and follow him into an alley. They apprehend him, not impressed by his performance. While going through his belongings, they find ingredients, and Jingo explains it's for a ramen recipe.

Kohan Yamanaka
 arrives, and apologises for the situation. Jingo was a missing-nin, but has since been pardoned by his village, the barrier team's records being out of date. Jingo now owns a ramen shop, and his purchase was a kitchen knife. Chōchō is hungry, and Jingo offers to try his ramen. Shikadai's team pursues thieves who are after
Scientific Ninja Tool
 data. The thieves bump into Jingo, and their stolen data gets mixed up with one of Jingo's spice containers. Arriving at Jingo's shop, he explains he learned that a ramen critic will visit his ship the next day, so he wishes to impress them for a favourable article to attract clients. However, he's not confident he can create a new recipe. Chōchō is moved by how his life turned around over being treated at
Ramen Ichiraku
. Inojin and Chōchō offer to help him to make up for apprehending him by mistake. At a hideout, the data thieves discover the mix up with Jingo. Chōchō and Inojin help Jingo gather more unique ingredients with his shinobi skills, and critique his cooking process. Jingo's ramen is good, but they feel something is missing. At night, Jingo returns to the shop, having forgotten his wallet, and is attacked by thieves after the memory card with the stolen data, which Chōchō borrowed thinking it was spice for her chips. Inojin
senses
 something wrong with Jingo, and they arrived at his thrashed shop, where he
draws birds
 to track him. Shikadai's team finds the thieves' hideout, and he recognises Jingo from earlier. He notices Inojin's birds, and sends him a message, notifying them of their location. The thieves demand to know where the data is, but Jingo knows nothing about it. The Konoha shinobi all subdue the thieves. Chōchō rushes Jingo to finish his recipe, and Shikadai suspects he's still involved when the data isn't recovered from the thieves. Shikadai checks on Inojin and Chōchō on Jingo's shop, where he discovers the missing data when Chōchō tries putting the spice on her ramen. As Shikadai talks about team-work, it inspires Jingo on how to improve his recipe, using flavoured chips like the ones Chōchō eats to change it up. Team 10 approves his recipe. Later, Teams 10 and 7 go have ramen at Jingo's but there's a long line over the positive review from the ramen critic.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Inojin Yamanaka
Atsushi Abe
阿部 敦
Abe Atsushi
Chōchō Akimichi
Ryoko Shiraishi
白石 涼子
Shiraishi Ryōko
Shikadai Nara
Kensho Ono
小野 賢章
Ono Kenshō
Jingo Kumano
Ryuta Anzai
安斎 龍太
Anzai Ryūta
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Kohan Yamanaka
Reigo Yamaguchi
山口 令悟
Yamaguchi Reigo
Suika Kannonji
Mariko Higashiuchi
東内 マリ子
Higashiuchi Mariko
Konoha kunoichi
Aoi Inase
いなせ あおい
Inase Aoi
Thief group leader
Kosuke Katayama
片山 公輔
Katayama Kōsuke
Thief group
Katsunori Okai
Ryo Nishitani
岡井 カツノリ
西谷 亮
Okai Katsunori
Nishitani Ryō