"
The Power of the Nine-Tails
" (
九尾の力
,
Kyūbi no Chikara
) is episode 131 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Urashiki
 complains about
Boruto
's constant interference with his plans.
Sasuke
 attacks him, but before Boruto can get
Naruto
 to flee, Urashiki's line finds its way to Naruto. Urashiki yanks back his line, but is surprised there is no chakra on his hook. Sasuke speculates to himself it's due to the
fūinjutsu
 sealing the
Nine-Tails
. Urashiki opts to restrain Naruto instead, and dodges Sasuke again with his
Rinnegan
, noting he's not a full power.
Jiraiya
 arrives just in time to witness Urashiki dodging Boruto's
Rasengan
. Having secured Naruto, Urashiki
traps
 Boruto, Sasuke, and Jiraiya with rocks, and leaves to figure out why he can't extract the Nine-Tails' chakra. Jiraiya asks who Urashiki is, and talking around the fact they're from the future, Sasuke explains that Urashiki is after the Nine-Tails, and they're there to stop him. Sasuke mentions a possible connection between Urashiki and
Akatsuki
 to make his story more believable. Satisfied with the explanation, but still wanting for details, Jiraiya breaks them out of the rock prison with a
summoned toad
. Urashiki tells Naruto he'll extract the Nine-Tails from him. Boruto explains Urashiki's ability to Jiraiya, who in line with Sasuke's earlier speculation, attributes the failure to the
seal
 keeping the fox in Naruto, and stresses that if Urashiki forcefully breaks the seal, everyone will be in danger and Naruto will die.
 Urashiki reaches inside Naruto through his seal, getting into his subconscious. He makes his way to Kurama, telling it he's getting its chakra back, but the seal repels Urashiki, burning his hand. The Nine-Tails' chakra begins leaking, and Urashiki is only able to extract a bit of it, determining it necessary to further weaken the seal. Sasuke senses the Nine-Tails' chakra. Urashiki heals his hand with the chakra he managed to extract, and attempts to continue, but Naruto repels his fishing hook and breaks free of the fishing line. Sasuke, Boruto, and Jiraiya arrive. Sasuke attacks, and Urashiki counterattacks, getting his hook into Sasuke. However, he's unable to get any chakra, having had a fūinjutsu applied to himself. Boruto and Jiraiya go to Naruto, Jiraiya cautioning Boruto against the leaking chakra. The chakra forms a
Version 1
 shroud around Naruto, causing him to rampage against them. Boruto tries talking to him, and briefly manages to calm Naruto down before the chakra causes him to attack. Jiraiya applies a
sealing tag
 to suppress the Nine-Tails' chakra. Fighting Sasuke, Urashiki
portals
 away to reformulate his strategy. While bandaging Boruto's injury, Jiraiya explains the prejudices Naruto faced from the villagers. Knowing Urashiki will be back, Jiraiya offers to train Boruto and Naruto together.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Sasuke Uchiha
Noriaki Sugiyama
杉山 紀彰
Sugiyama Noriaki
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Jiraiya
Hochu Otsuka
大塚 芳忠
Ōtsuka Hōchū
Urashiki Ōtsutsuki
Kazuya Nakai
中井 和哉
Nakai Kazuya
Nine-Tailed Demon Fox
Tessho Genda
玄田 哲章
Genda Tesshō