"
The Mind Transfer Jutsu that Lost to Potato Chips
" (
ポテチに負けた心転身の術
,
Potechi ni Maketa Shintenshin no Jutsu
) is episode 140 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Team 10
 ambushes a criminal at night,
Shikadai
 predicting where he'll run. The criminal is able to take a hostage, who he threatens to kill if they advance. With the clouds blocking the moon, Shikadai can't cast a shadow for his jutsu and tells
Inojin
 to use his
Mind Body Switch Technique
. Inojin hesitates, having had limited success with it in the past, so Shikadai uses his own jutsu when moon reappears, pinning the criminal and allowing
Chōchō
 to knock him out. The following day, Team 10 discusses the events with
Team 7
. Inojin and Chōchō end up discussing over him letting her eat his cold fries. Later, Chōchō asks what's wrong with him, for example, if Shikadai making it to
chūnin
 before them is bothering him. Inojin denies it. Chōchō expresses interest in working on her
clan
's jutsu, which Inojin finds uncharacteristic of her. At home, Inojin asks help training his Mind Body Switch Technique, which gets
Ino
 excited. The next day, Chōchō accompanies Inojin, and the two watch as Ino demonstrates the jutsu on a tanuki. Ino has him try it, and Inojin has no issue controlling the Tanuki. Next, she has him try it on Chōchō, but he can't stop her from eating her favourite chips. Ino wants him to try again, but Inojin doesn't think he can overcome Chōchō, so
Sai
 suggests he train his
Super Beast Imitating Drawing
 instead.
 Inojin agrees to it, but Ino and Sai begin discussing how to train him, Ino insisting on him focusing on his willpower, while Sai says he won't get it until she gives him a more logical explanation. Inojin and Chōchō watch and comment on them as their discussion escalates. Inojin tries stopping their argument in vain. Chōchō suggests Inojin take over one of them with his jutsu, but he doubts he can do it if he can't even control her. Chōchō asks why he gives up before even trying. Inojin attempts to stop Ino, but she overpowers him anyway. He tries it on his father, who allows him to try speaking to Ino. He apologises profusely, but the generic nature of his apology angers her more. Inojin leaves Sai's body, and Ino chastises him for bring their son into the fight. Inojin tries going into Ino again, he admits hasn't mastered it, messing it up halfway, and tells her how he heard she once saved Sai with the jutsu, which is why he wants to master it, so he can protect others. While they talk, Chōchō gives Sai advice on what to do to end their fighting. Chōchō tells Inojin to leave, and he sees his father hugging his mother. Ino comes to and is embarrassed by the hug, and changes to subject to praising Inojin's jutsu. At the end of the day, Inojin promises to treat Chōchō burger and fries. The next day, Chōchō and Inojin tell Team 7 of Inojin's training, and Inojin treats Chōchō. They ask for a demonstration, so while pretending to deny it, Inojin weaves the hand seals hidden under the table, and takes over Chōchō. They see Inojin has taken over, and he eats the fries in Chōchō's body.

Trivia

During Inojin's training, while the jutsu's mechanic is displayed correctly at first, with Inojin becoming unconscious when he's controlling Chōchō, it's later shown incorrectly, with him remaining conscious while trying to overcome Chōchō's will to have potato chips. Later, it's shown working normally again.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Inojin Yamanaka
Atsushi Abe
阿部 敦
Abe Atsushi
Ino Yamanaka
Ryoka Yuzuki
柚木 涼香
Yuzuki Ryōka
Sai Yamanaka
Satoshi Hino
日野 聡
Hino Satoshi
Chōchō Akimichi
Ryoko Shiraishi
白石 涼子
Shiraishi Ryōko
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Shikadai Nara
Kensho Ono
小野 賢章
Ono Kenshō
Konoha people
Kazuya Saji
Juri Nagatsuma
佐治 和也
長妻 樹里
Saji Kazuya
Nagatsuma Juri