"
The Picture Book's Story
" (
絵本が語る物語
,
Ehon ga Kataru Sutōrī
) is episode 50 of the
Naruto: Shippūden
 anime.

Synopsis

As
Naruto
 continues searching for
Sasuke
 with
Sai
, he collapses, due to his body having not recovered after entering his
four-tailed
 form earlier. As Naruto falls unconscious, Sai carries him to the side.
Sakura
 and
Yamato
 continue searching each rooms, with Sakura getting impatient as they find themselves unable to locate Sasuke. Yamato warns Sakura not to rush in blindly, reminding her that they are in
Orochimaru
's lair and that there may be traps in place. Up on the surface, the Yamato
wood clone
 continues to watch over
Kabuto
, who claims that the only map of the hideout is in his mind. Yamato's wood clone refuses to take Kabuto back to the hideout, unaware that the latter has prepared a
Chakra Scalpel
 behind his back.

As Naruto regains consciousness, Sai tells him that Naruto reminds him of his
adoptive brother
. Sai recalls his memories with his brother and finally remembers what he wanted to draw, and quickly paints a picture of his brother and him smiling and holding hands. He tells Naruto that this was their dream, and that Naruto reminds him of his brother. Their conversation is interrupted by Orochimaru, who stumbles onto them while walking down a corridor. He uses his
Hidden Shadow Snake Hands
 technique to attack them, but the two evade. Naruto tells Sai to rescue Sasuke while he handles Orochimaru. As Sai sets off, Naruto prepares to fight the
Sannin
, and uses
Shadow Clone Technique
. Naruto's infused chakra activates the
tracking seed
 he had swallowed, and Yamato is signalled to the crisis. With his shadow clones, Naruto attempts to fight off Orochimaru, who uses his snakes and swords to dispel the shadow clones; Naruto hit a snake with
Rasengan
 but finds himself caught by another snake. Orochimaru wonders whether this is the strongest Naruto can be; Naruto considers tapping into the
Nine-Tails
' power but remembers Yamato's warning, and decides against it, not wanting to risk losing control and hurting one of his teammates. Orochimaru decides to kill Naruto, but his attack is blocked by Yamato's
Wood Release
.

Sai, who theorises that Naruto's bout with Orochimaru should not only take time but summon Sakura and Yamato as well, takes the opportunity to use his
Super Beast Imitating Drawing
 technique to create several ink rats to find Sasuke. Orochimaru senses Sai and spares
Team Kakashi
's life for the time being, asking them to repay him by killing off more
Akatsuki
 members. Sakura asks where Sai is, and Naruto tells him that Sai went off looking for Sasuke. Sakura notices that Sai left his backpack and she smiles as she realises that he finished his picture book. Yamato finds a
Bingo Book
 among Sai's belongings, surprised that he would even have such a thing in his possession. He explains to the duo that the Bingo Book has a list of individuals who are meant to be assassinated, and that if Sai has the book, then he must be on an assassination mission. Yamato, Sakura and Naruto are then shocked to see Sasuke's face inside the Bingo Book, and realise that Sai's true mission may be assassinating Sasuke. Meanwhile, one of his Sai's rats locates Sasuke's room and Sai opens the door, seeing Sasuke lying on his side with his
Uchiha Clan
 symbol facing the door.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Maile Flanagan
Sakura Haruno
Chie Nakamura
中村 千絵
Nakamura Chie
Kate Higgins
Sai
Satoshi Hino
日野 聡
Hino Satoshi
Benjamin Diskin
Yamato
Rikiya Koyama
小山 力也
Koyama Rikiya
Troy Baker
Orochimaru
Kujira
くじら
Kujira
Steve Blum
Kabuto Yakushi
Nobutoshi Kanna
神奈 延年
Kanna Nobutoshi
Henry Dittman
Boy drawn in picture book
Takashi Kondo
近藤 隆
Kondō Takashi
Anbu shinobi
Kenichiro Matsuda
松田 健一郎
Matsuda Ken'ichirō