"
The Criminal Targeting Kokuri
" (
コクリを狙った犯人
,
Kokuri o Neratta Hannin
) is episode 143 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

The prison goes into lock-down.
Boruto
 asks his cell-mates to check on their belongings, and he and
Mitsuki
 explain what they deduced about who stole the medical tag and attacked
Kokuri
.
Kamata
 is suspicious of Boruto's claim not to be
Tsukiyo
's accomplice, but
Arai
 believes him.
Benga
 announces they'll begin searching for the medical tag, and that if found, the everyone in the culprit's cell will have their sentences extended and be sent to solitary if they can't determine who in the cell is the culprit.
Sarada
 wants to question Tsukiyo, and
Mujō
 wants to assign a guard to accompany her. When Boruto discusses the attack on Kokuri with his cell-mates, Kamata finds the assailant to be stupid, and says he wouldn't have messed it up. Kamata tries to get Kokuri to say why Tsukiyo wants him dead, but Arai warns him that Kamata is conniving, and will use any valuable information he learns, and also calls his bluff when he prepares to fight. Arai also discreetly warns Boruto about
Kedama
, not to be deceived by the appearance he doesn't care about anything. Arai voluntarily shows his bunk, and when Kamata refuses to let them search his, Arai points out he frequently talks to guard
Haie
, suggesting that's how he's in touch with Tsukiyo. Kamata instead mentions how he saw Arai making his way to the medical ward the day before, and accuses him.
 He claims he went to the cafeteria, to see the smuggler, and shows the chocolate he got as proof. The lock-down sweep continues. Sarada interviews Tsukiyo, who sees through her and asks why she's pretending to be a reporter. Kamata still refuses to let them search his bunk, and Kokuri goes through Kedama's by mistake. When Kedama says he didn't agree to it, Mitsuki finds the medical tag in his sheets, to Kedama's surprise. Arai calls Kedama a coward, and reveals he used to be respected by all the prisoners, but in reality he spied on them on behalf of the guards, and told on a friend who tried to escape. While Mitsuki and Boruto are willing to hear him out, Arai is adamant not to trust him. When Arai mentions the Mujina Gang, Mitsuki points out none of them had mentioned the Mujina. They accuse him of having hidden the tag in his sheets when he volunteered to show his bunk, and slipping it to Kedama's bunk when everyone else was distracted. Arai pushes Boruto aside trying to get to Kokuri, but is punched by Kedama and immobilised by Mitsuki. They hand him and the medical tag over to Benga, ending the lock-down. Benga reports to Mujō and asks about Boruto and Kokuri. Mujō tells him not to suspect prisoners for no good reason, as not to incite retaliation. Though Arai was caught, Boruto and Mitsuki still don't know much about Kokuri, or his intel about the Mujina.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Mujō
Akio Nojima
野島 昭生
Nojima Akio
Kokuri
Takayasu Usui
うすい たかやす
Usui Takayasu
Tsukiyo
Masanori Takeda
竹田 雅則
Takeda Masanori
Kedama
Takaya Kuroda
黒田 崇矢
Kuroda Takaya
Arai
Ryota Suzuki
鈴木 崚汰
Suzuki Ryōta
Kamata
Riki Kitazawa
北沢 力
Kitazawa Riki
Benga
Dai Matsumoto
松本 大
Matsumoto Dai