This article is about the chapter. For the volume, see
The Value of a Trump Card!!
.

"
The Value of a Trump Card!!
" (
切り札の価値!!
,
Kirifuda no Kachi!!
,
Viz:
 The Value of a Hidden Ace!!) is chapter 13 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 manga.

Synopsis

Team Konohamaru
 is summoned to their
sensei
's office. While on their way,
Boruto
 tells
Sarada
 and
Mitsuki
 about his last mission bodyguarding the
daimyō
's son
Tentō
 and how the two had become friends despite the rough start they had. In Konohamaru's office, the trio are presented with a
B-ranked
 mission and though apprehensive at first about the challenges, after hearing that elite shinobi such as the
Fifth Kazekage
 undertook such missions while still a
genin
 they are stirred to do their best on the upcoming mission. While on his way from Konohamaru's office, Boruto finds the extremely rare
card
 that he has been searching for and realises Tentō must have slipped it into his pocket. While he desperately wants the card, Boruto is adamant that he cannot accept it and decides  to go to the
Konoha Mountain Villa
 and return the card to Tentō.
 While trying to find Tentō's room, Boruto overhears
Ikkyū
 speaking with his bodyguards, distressed that Tentō has been kidnapped. Lingering long enough to hear the details of the ransom demands (500 million
ryō
 and the release of all the prisoners from the
Hōzuki Castle
), he also learns that Ikkyū did not plan to alert anyone else of the kidnapping, believing there was a spy in his entourage; Boruto leaves the hotel and heads to Sarada's house. Startling her somewhat, Boruto apologises and lets her know that he would not be able to go on the mission with them, which Sarada understands must be for something important. Meanwhile, a kidnapped Tentō is confused when his kidnappers reveal themselves and he sees
Yamaoka
 before him. His actual kidnapper
Shojoji
 reveals himself and explains his
Corpse Clone Technique
 to the young man. Shojoji mocks Tentō's love of shinobi while declaring that he himself was a shinobi though he wasn't featured on any collectible card. After being lifted and thrown to the ground, Tentō finds the
shuriken
 Boruto had given him and makes a stand again Shojoji, who laughs off the endeavour before realising Tentō intended to kill himself. Shojoji is able to stop him before deciding that he would consume Tentō's brain and assume his identity. Boruto arrives in time to thwart Shojoji, and prepares to stand off against the
Mujina Bandits
.