"
The Spiral of Revenge
" (
復讐の渦
,
Fukushū no Uzu
) is episode 254 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Mitsuki
 and
Sarada
 are shocked by
Boruto
's proposal. So is
Chōjūrō
 back on
Kirigakure
's fleet.
Ikada
 says Boruto's life isn't enough to stop the war, but Boruto says it's all he can do. Sarada and Mitsuki try to dissuade Boruto, Mitsuki saying he can't afford to lose Boruto. Ikada says he'll consider it if Sarada and Mitsuki can stay back and watch Boruto die, but they refuse. Boruto says he's scared of dying, and believes that everyone who has died in the war felt the same, that others were saddened by their deaths. He feels that someone has to be the one to take on the pain to stop the war, and is willing to be that person, and asks Sarada and Mitsuki not to take revenge for him.
Gokai
 interjects, arguing that as the one who killed
Funamushi
, Boruto doesn't deserve an easy death. Ikada allows him and the others to attack Boruto, while Boruto asks Sarada and Mitsuki to stay still.
Araumi
 considers what Ikada came up with fun.
Kawaki
 wonders what Boruto is doing as he prepares to kill Araumi. Sarada and Mitsuki approach Boruto on the floor, while Ikada mocks them.
 Sarada asks Boruto if he trusts the
Funato
 to stop fighting after he dies, but standing up, Boruto says it's not about trust, it's about what he needs to do. Ikada stops the other Funato from attacking, saying
Kobuna
 has the right of delivering the killing blow. Ikada explains that the strong currents where they are will never allow him to resurface, showing them a ramp for Boruto to be tossed off the ship. Chōjūrō allows
Misuno
 to prepare an attack on the mobile fortress, thinking Boruto's naivete won't stop the war.
Team 5
 and the
swordsmen
 approach the Funato on a ship of their own. Kobuna is eager to avenge his father, and Boruto tells Kobuna how alike they were in seeking revenge. Boruto's wish for his death to quell their anger and hatred shakes Kobuna's resolve, and Boruto says he doesn't have to get blood on his hands, stepping off the ship himself. Ikada dares Sarada and Mitsuki to try avenging Boruto. Mitsuki struggles not to get into
Sage Mode
. Ikada is puzzled by their inaction despite the Funato taunting them about Boruto. Sarada confirms that she does hate them, having known Boruto since childhood, considering him a brother. Relating to that pain, and finding it impossible to suppress, Ikada eggs her on to take revenge. She does activate her
Sharingan
 and take out a
kunai
, but she stops herself, throwing it on the floor. Mitsuki does the same, saying that if they attack, Boruto's wish will be in vain. Kobuna begins sobbing, and asks Ikada to tell him if he did the right thing by avenging his father. Ikada thinks of
Seiren
, and jumps into the ocean to save Boruto. He rises out in a
sea dragon
, going far enough up to split the storm clouds above them. Everyone is in awe of Ikada's power. Araumi is angry that he saved Boruto. Boruto is surprised to be alive, and Ikada tells him he won, his friends not trying to take revenge. Boruto tells him it's not about winning or losing. Ikada returns them to the ship, dispelling the sea dragon. Gokai questions why Ikada saved him, and he plainly answers because they didn't seek revenge. He declares the war over and orders their withdrawal. Gokai questions why Seiren and Funamushi died for. One of the Funato soldiers wants the fighting to stop so his children don't get drawn into it. Kobuna continues crying, and several Funato soldiers drop their harpoons, Gokai considering them a disgrace. Araumi aims the
Chakra Cannon
 to the
Shinonome 1
, voicing his disappointment in Ikada. Kawaki enters the room, and tells him he's already lost to Boruto and Ikada. Araumi refuses to give up, so Kawaki slashes his throat with his
bladed arm
. Gokai tries to rile up the Funato soldiers to keep on fighting, but Boruto wants their future to be different from their past, mentioning Kagura's wish for his village to be a symbol of peace. Chōjūrō admits he has a lot to learn, having dismissed Boruto's determination as naivete.
Buntan
 chooses to abandon seeking revenge for
Kagura
 and
Hebiichigo
. Ikada tells Boruto he is tired of hating and being hated, preferring if everyone can keep smiling. Boruto tells him he wished to talk and laugh with Ikada again.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Kawaki
Yuma Uchida
内田 雄馬
Uchida Yūma
Ikada Funato
Yusuke Shirai
白井 悠介
Shirai Yūsuke
Denki Kaminarimon
Chihiro Ikki
一木 千洋
Ikki Chihiro
Iwabee Yuino
Shinya Hamazoe
浜添 伸也
Hamazoe Shin'ya
Metal Lee
Ryo Nishitani
西谷 亮
Nishitani Ryō
Buntan Kurosuki
Mariya Ise
伊瀬 茉莉也
Ise Mariya
Chōjūrō
Koki Miyata
宮田 幸季
Miyata Kōki
Tankan
Aya Gomazuru
胡麻鶴 彩
Gomazuru Aya
Araumi Funato
Shigeru Chiba
千葉 繁
Chiba Shigeru
Kobuna
Asami Tano
田野 アサミ
Tano Asami
Gokai
Taito Ban
坂 泰斗
Ban Taito
Funato soldiers
Kazuya Saji
Hirokazu Sekido
Kosuke Katayama
佐治 和也
関戸 博一
片山 公輔
Saji Kazuya
Sekido Hirokazu
Katayama Kōsuke
Funato soldier gunner
Katsunori Okai
岡井 カツノリ
Okai Katsunori