"
The Power of the Uchiha
" (
うちはの力
,
Uchiha no Chikara
) is episode 52 of the
Naruto: Shippūden
 anime.

Synopsis

Naruto
 and
Sasuke
 recall their
their last battle
, and Naruto wonders why Sasuke did not kill him since he wishes to sever their friendship so badly. Sasuke states that he did not kill Naruto because he did not want to obtain power the way
Itachi
 did, as Itachi had told him to kill his best friend in order to awaken his
Mangekyō Sharingan
. When Naruto claims he does not understand, Sasuke retorts that he does need to explain himself, and uses his immensely fast speed to appear in front of Naruto on the ground. He asks Naruto whether it his still his dream to be
Hokage
, and tells him that his years spend chasing after him would have been better spent had he trained instead. Naruto muses that he cannot be Hokage if he could not even manage to save his friend. Pulling out his
sword
, Sasuke tells Naruto that while he spared his life last time, he has no qualms about killing him as they no longer share a bond. He attempts to stab Naruto in the back, but the attack is blocked by
Sai
. Sasuke praises Sai's block but emits
Chidori
 as a
current
 out of his body, repelling both Naruto and Sai and knocking them out.

Sakura
, remembering her vow not to be weak and be able to protect Naruto and bring Sasuke back, attempts to use her
Chakra Enhanced Strength
 to strike Sasuke. Sasuke's
Sharingan
 eyes predicts her movements, and he
channels his Chidori into his sword
, preparing to attack.
Yamato
 attempts to block the attack with his
kunai
, but the sword goes through the kunai and Sasuke, criticising Yamato's block, stabs him. Naruto regains consciousness and begins to fall under the influence of the
Nine-Tailed Fox
's chakra, while the
First Hokage's Necklace
 lies on the ground. The fox attempts to communicate with Naruto from within, telling Naruto to remove the seal and use all of its power. Naruto attempts to dismiss the fox, but the fox claims that Naruto has always used his power in his time of need and that without it, he would be weak. Before Naruto can do anything, Sasuke appears, much to his and the fox's surprise. Sasuke realises that the Nine-Tailed Demon Fox is the source of Naruto's true power and is surprised that Naruto had the spirit inside of him. The demon fox is impressed that Sasuke is able to see him inside of Naruto via his Sharingan and remarks that his physical appearance along with his
kekkei genkai
 being much advanced than his years would belie makes him a spitting image of
Madara Uchiha
 from the elder days. Sasuke manages to burst the demon fox's chakra, telling the fox that he does not recognise the name nor does he care. Both the fox and Naruto are astonished that Sasuke was able to suppress the
tailed beast
's chakra, but before subsiding, he warns Sasuke not to kill Naruto.

In the real world, Naruto awakens back in his normal state as Sasuke looks at him. Yamato uses his
Wood Release
 to force Sasuke's Chidori-enhanced katana out of his torso and attempts to trap him using his
Wood Release: Wood Locking Wall
 technique to form a wooden dome around Sasuke. Sasuke, however, breaks out of the dome, and
Team Kakashi
 is left marvelling at Sasuke's vastly improved skills and strength.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Maile Flanagan
Sakura Haruno
Chie Nakamura
中村 千絵
Nakamura Chie
Kate Higgins
Sai
Satoshi Hino
日野 聡
Hino Satoshi
Benjamin Diskin
Yamato
Rikiya Koyama
小山 力也
Koyama Rikiya
Troy Baker
Kabuto Yakushi
Nobutoshi Kanna
神奈 延年
Kanna Nobutoshi
Henry Dittman
Sasuke Uchiha
Noriaki Sugiyama
杉山 紀彰
Sugiyama Noriaki
Yuri Lowenthal
Nine-Tailed Fox
Tessho Genda
玄田 哲章
Genda Tesshō
Paul St. Peter