This article is about the chapter. For the volume, see
The Whereabouts of the Sun (volume)
.

"
The Whereabouts of the Sun
" (
太陽の行方
,
Taiyō no Yukue
) is chapter 7 of the
Boruto: Two Blue Vortex
 manga.

Summary

Mitsuki
 ponders on the importance of the "sun" to him as the "moon". He attacks
Boruto
 with
chakra snakes
, deflecting Boruto's
shuriken
. Boruto avoids them,
teleporting
 to his shuriken, and asks about
Kawaki
, having expected him to have given chase. Mitsuki feels there's no point in answering as he's the one there.
Shikamaru

explains
 that Mitsuki
knocked out
 Kawaki, so Boruto couldn't detect his approach. Mitsuki believes Boruto is much stronger than
Code
 at the moment, and therefore much stronger than Kawaki. Boruto adds that by that logic, Mitsuki is no match for him either deeming their fight pointless. Mitsuki explains he came alone so he wouldn't defer to Kawaki, intending to let loose, but doesn't elaborate. He attacks Boruto with
snake clones
, significantly damaging the environment, which Boruto points out, in addition of stressing that more isn't always better. Mitsuki just wants him to die over being the root of the problem. Boruto concedes he's to blame, but can't die over unfinished business, so he makes
short work
 of Mitsuki's clones. Mitsuki attacks with
Lightning Release
, which Boruto cancels out with
his own
, allowing him to close in and have his
sword
 to Mitsuki's neck.
 Mitsuki exits
Sage Mode
, telling him to finish it. Boruto explains that what Mitsuki is feeling isn't that he's prepare to die, but that he lost hope, no longer trusting what he wants to believe in. Mitsuki is confused. Boruto continues, elaborating that Kawaki's sun no longer shines on him. Shikamaru asks if
Ino
 can extend her jutsu to include Mitsuki to get all his words, but she refuses, as it would give him access to their conversation. Mitsuki accuses Boruto of being a grudge-bearing traitor, and Boruto sheathes his sword, claiming he does know where Mitsuki's sun is, referring to himself as it. Incredulous and outraged, Mitsuki wraps a
snake
 around Boruto, ready to have it bite him. Boruto is unconcerned, asking why the snake hasn't bitten him yet. Mitsuki himself questions why Boruto hasn't freed himself yet. Boruto speculates that Mitsuki has realised Kawaki isn't his sun a while ago, that no matter how close he stays to Kawaki, he won't shine on him. Mitsuki is distraught. Boruto tells him he knows it's true, because he's the only one who gets to decide what it takes to be his sun. Mitsuki retracts his snake, asking who Boruto is. Boruto just wants to clear a misunderstanding with Kawaki. He asks why Boruto killed
Naruto
, and Boruto reveals that both Naruto and
Hinata
 are alive. Turning around to leave, he considers Mitsuki capable of shining on his own, but to come find him anytime if he does want a sun. Ino is shocked that Naruto is alive, Shikamaru asks Boruto to go somewhere private so they can resume talking. Kawaki wakes up at
Ada
 and
Daemon
's, and asks about Mitsuki. Shikamaru summarises the situation, but Boruto tells him not to bother trying to learn about
Omnipotence
, having forgotten about the many times
Sarada
 and
Sumire
 told him about it. The very concept of it fades from one's memory. Boruto does commend Shikamaru of figuring it out on his own. Shikamaru asks how to reverse it, but Boruto says they can't, and doing it wouldn't resolve the issues between him and Kawaki. Kawaki
sealed
 Naruto away to protect him, so he has to have motive to unseal him himself, if they rescue Naruto, Kawaki would just seal him again. Shikamaru believes that in Boruto's situation, he'd want to rescue Naruto and kill Kawaki. Boruto denies wanting to kill Kawaki, settling for slugging and making up with him. Boruto will have to continue being hunted, and Shikamaru wants to avoid Kawaki feeling cornered, so they can't expose him yet until they are ready. Boruto is in agreement. Elsewhere,
Jura
 reads several books, with
Hidari
 by his side, fascinated by the fact that the more he learns, the more he becomes aware of his own ignorance. However, none of the books have the answers to his questions, so he decides to go visit Naruto.