"
The Light and Dark of the Mangekyō Sharingan
" (
万華鏡写輪眼の光と闇
,
Mangekyō Sharingan no Hikari to Yami
) is episode 136 of the
Naruto: Shippūden
 anime.

Synopsis

Sasuke
 finds
Itachi
's claim of
Madara Uchiha
 being a co-conspirator of the
Uchiha Clan Downfall
 to be a farce, since Madara was the co-founder of
Konohagakure
 and thus should be long dead. Itachi reminds Sasuke that one's reality is merely another's fantasy and that the truth is that Madara is still alive, whether he would like to believe it or not. As Sasuke has his
sword
 impaled through Itachi's back, he tells Itachi that his
Sharingan
 has matured to a point where Itachi's
genjutsu
 won't work on him; Sasuke then turns around and fires a
Chidori Sharp Spear
 at the real Itachi, who is sitting behind him, missing Itachi's face by inches. The brothers are unaware that their bout is being witnessed by
Zetsu
, who wonders why they haven't begun their clash already.

Itachi tells Sasuke that he would like to take the time to share a little history regarding the
Uchiha clan
 and pulls Sasuke into a
genjutsu
, where Sasuke sees Madara and his younger brother
Izuna
 sparring. Itachi explains that the two brothers always fought one another to push each to their limits and eventually killed their own comrades to awaken the
Mangekyō Sharingan
. With the Mangekyō  granting him visual prowess, Madara became the head of the clan and waged war against numerous villages; however, the Mangekyō had a price for those who used its abilities, and Madara was rendered blind. Desperate to regain his vision once more, Madara stole his brother Izuna's eyes and fused them with his own, creating an Eternal Mangekyō Sharingan that heightens the user's visual prowess and does not cause them to lose their vision.

Eventually, Madara formed an alliance with
Hashirama Senju
 of the
Senju clan
, who would become the First Hokage, and fought for leadership at the
Valley of the End
. In a bid to gain vengeance, Itachi reveals that it was Madara who unleashed the
Nine-Tailed Fox
 on Konoha 16 years ago, as he was able to control the
tailed beast
 with his Eternal Mangekyō. Itachi tells Sasuke that since the Eternal Mangekyō can only be activated by taking the Sharingan eyes of a close family member, ideally a sibling, he plans to take Sasuke's eyes and reach a status higher than Madara himself ever obtained.

Realising that his life's goal is finally in front of him, Sasuke removes his bandages as he launches a volley of
shuriken
 at Itachi, who fires his own back. Sasuke rushes towards Itachi with his sword, who blocks it. As they remain locked in each other's grip, Itachi's
shadow clone
 comes from above, throwing
kunai
 towards Sasuke. Forcing a
snake
 to burst out of his
cursed seal
, Sasuke uses the snake to shield himself and leap backwards. Using the
Unsealing Technique
, Sasuke
summons
 a
fūma shuriken
 and hurls it at Itachi, who blocks it with a kunai. However, Sasuke managed to imbue the fūma shuriken with his
Lightning Release
, running his
Chidori
 through it; the process destroys the Itachi shadow clone.

Using his Mangekyō, Itachi arrives before Sasuke and kicks him into a wall, trapping his arms and feet. He asks Sasuke to forgive him as he seemingly removes Sasuke's Sharingan eyes.

Trivia

In the
previous episode
, Itachi tells Sasuke that if he had awoken his Mangekyō Sharingan, he would have been the third person in the clan's history to do so. However, in this episode, Itachi tells Sasuke that both Madara and his younger brother Izuna had awoken the Mangekyō Sharingan in their youth, thus making Itachi the third person.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Sasuke Uchiha
Noriaki Sugiyama
杉山 紀彰
Sugiyama Noriaki
Yuri Lowenthal
Itachi Uchiha
Hideo Ishikawa
石川 英郎
Ishikawa Hideo
Crispin Freeman
Madara Uchiha
Naoya Uchida
内田 直哉
Uchida Naoya
Neil Kaplan
Zetsu
Nobuo Tobita
飛田 展男
Tobita Nobuo
Travis Willingham
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Maile Flanagan
Yamato
Rikiya Koyama
小山 力也
Koyama Rikiya
Troy Baker
Kiba Inuzuka
Kosuke Toriumi
鳥海 浩輔
Toriumi Kōsuke
Kyle Hebert
Shino Aburame
Shinji Kawada
川田 紳司
Kawada Shinji
Derek Stephen Prince