"
The Enemy, Ino–Shika–Chō!
" (
敵は猪鹿蝶…!!
,
Teki wa Ino–Shika–Chō…!!
) is episode 74 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Boruto
 and
Sarada
 question
Team 10
's presence. They explain they've been sent to bring Boruto and Sarada back to the village, or else they'll be considered
missing-nin
. They try arguing with the two, but are unable to convince them to return, so they attack. Despite not fighting to kill, Team 10 manages to pressure the two.
Inojin
 tries sealing Boruto, while
Chōchō
 holds Sarada in place. Boruto destroys Inojin's sealing scroll with a
Vanishing Rasengan
, and Sarada frees herself with a flash bomb. Though they escape,
Shikadai
 is confident he has discerned the pattern of their actions. In Konoha,
Temari
 takes lunch to
Shikamaru
 at work, and questions why Team 10 was assigned to retrieve Boruto and Sarada. Shikamaru says Shikadai has learned from the
Byakuya Gang
 incident, so he'll act even if they're his friends. While Inojin does aerial reconnaissance,
Moegi
, Shikadai, and Chōchō discuss
Mitsuki
, and how Boruto and Sarada going after him reflects on everyone else. Shikadai ponders why Sarada, who's so level-headed, would also go off after Mitsuki.
 Inojin reports there are two sets of Boruto and Sarada. They split up to go after both sets. Moegi defeats the decoys, and the genin catch up to them, having flown with Inojin's drawn beasts. Shikadai is able to predict their strategy, and through a ruse with Inojin, is able to pin down Boruto and Sarada. Shikadai notices Mitsuki's snake with them. Shikamaru elaborates to Temari that he thinks there's more to Mitsuki's disappearance, and that Boruto and Sarada may have found a clue, so he's counting on Shikadai to discover what it is, and make a decision based on it. Learning of the contents of Mitsuki's message and the circumstances of its discovery, Shikadai decides to join Boruto and Sarada, to everyone's surprise. On her way to the genin, Moegi is attacked by an unknown assailant, and fights back. Shikadai explains how all the inconsistencies of Mitsuki's departure add up. Despite still not being convinced Mitsuki is innocent, he agrees that the best way to learn the truth is from Mitsuki himself. Chōchō decides to join in so Moegi doesn't yell at her for failing to stop them, and Inojin does it so he won't be the only one left behind. The assailant counters Moegi's
Water Release
 with the very same jutsu, and falls back, leading her to realise he was just stalling for time. Moegi gets exasperated when she finds an apology from her genin. Boruto and Sarada explain to the others where they're going and why. Moegi's assailant,
Suigetsu
, watches as the genin go forward, wondering about
Orochimaru
's intent. By nightfall, they start approaching
Ryūchi Cave
.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Shikadai Nara
Kensho Ono
小野 賢章
Ono Kenshō
Inojin Yamanaka
Atsushi Abe
阿部 敦
Abe Atsushi
Chōchō Akimichi
Ryoko Shiraishi
白石 涼子
Shiraishi Ryōko
Moegi Kazamatsuri
Noriko Shitaya
下屋 則子
Shitaya Noriko
Shikamaru Nara
Shotaro Morikubo
森久保 祥太郎
Morikubo Shōtarō
Temari Nara
Romi Park
朴 璐美
Paku Romi
Suigetsu Hōzuki
Takashi Kondo
近藤 隆
Kondō Takashi