"
The Tumultuous Journey
" (
試練の旅
,
Shiren no Tabi
) is episode 466 of the
Naruto: Shippūden
 anime.

Summary

Asura
 worries that
Indra
's demeanour will alienate others.
Taizō
 asks him to clear a few trees to make a path between fields, making a shortcut for his mother, however, it was a lie. Later, Taizō is restrained: Indra finding him guilty of having the trees cleared without others' consent, and Asura gullible for having believed him. Taizō confesses he wanted a path to get medicine for his mother. Asura asks why he didn't tell the truth, as he would have used
Ninshū
 to heal her, but Taizō reveals his mother hates it. As Asura was deceived into clearing the path, Indra will not punish him.
Hagoromo
 intervenes, suggesting Indra is being too strict, and that everyone makes mistakes. Indra is adamant that crimes should be punished to deter future crimes.
 At night, Asura breaks Taizō out, but they're discovered by Indra, who chastises Asura and defeats him. From afar, Hagoromo watches the two. At the anniversary of
Shiro
's death, Asura and Hagoromo discuss Indra, his eyes, and the differences between him and Asura. The day comes when Hagoromo is to decide his successor as the leader of Ninshū. Hagoromo hands them scrolls, each one with a location that was damaged by the fight against the Ten-Tails. Hagoromo wants each to go to a location, and solve whatever problem remains. He will pick his successor based on the results.

Asura is baffled by Hagoromo's decision, having neither the skill nor the desire to take over Ninshū, willing to simply aid Indra. Hagoromo discusses the two with
Gamamaru
 as the two depart. Asura notices Taizō following him. Taizō explains that after telling his mother of what Asura did for him, she told him to go aid him in his journey. The two journey to where the
God Tree
 used to be, finding a village there. The two are attacked by the villagers, fearful they're more robbers. While avoiding one of their attacks, one of the attackers hurts another. Asura heals her injury. Asura and Taizō are welcomed into the village. The next day, the two grow suspicious when they're not allowed to go where Asura senses the God Tree. The woman who Asura healed,
Kanna
, wishes him to heal her mother. Asura notices something with strong chakra connected to her, but can't heal her. Taizō finds graves of several others who perished to the same illness. Asura decides to go to the God Tree, and is aided by Taizō and Kanna. The three venture down a cave among the God Tree's roots.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki
Mitsutaka Tachikawa
立川 三貴
Tachikawa Mitsutaka
Doug Stone
Asura
Oki Sugiyama
杉山 大
Sugiyama Ōki
Chris Hackney
Indra
Takashi Kondo
近藤 隆
Kondō Takashi
Robbie Daymond
Futami
Kenji Nojima
野島 健児
Nojima Kenji
Lucien Dodge
Kanna
Natsuki Aikawa
相川 奈都姫
Aikawa Natsuki
Erica Lindbeck
Village Head
Minoru Kawai
河合 みのる
Kawai Minoru
Jamieson Price
Gamamaru
Shogo Nakamura
中村 章吾
Nakamura Shōgo
Todd Haberkorn
Taizō
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Bryce Papenbrook
Gasuka
Kengo Kawanishi
河西 健吾
Kawanishi Kengo
Yuri Lowenthal
Edashi
Yo Tokinaga
時永 洋
Tokinaga Yō
Robbie Rist