"
The Vessel Arrives Too Late
" (
奪還～間に合わなかった器
,
Dakkan~Ma ni Awanakatta Utsuwa
) is episode 118 of the original
Naruto
 anime.

Synopsis

Back in
Otogakure
,
Orochimaru
 is in immense pain as his arms are bleeding profusely.
Kabuto
 tells Orochimaru that he will die unless he takes over someone else's body, even offering his own, but Orochimaru claims that
Sasuke
 is the only vessel he will take. Kabuto, however, tells Orochimaru that it doesn't look like the
Sound Four
 will bring Sasuke to Oto in time, and that he must take a new vessel quickly before he dies. Kabuto then releases all of the prisoners who he and Orochimaru experimented on, and promises to release only one of them. The prisoners then fight each other to the death so that the sole survivor may be granted freedom. Kabuto then goes to check on
Kimimaro
, a loyal follower of Orochimaru who is terminally ill and thus bed-ridden. It is revealed that Kimimaro was the leader of what used to be known as the Sound Five, and that he was to be the vessel for Orochimaru, until he was afflicted with his disease. As he no longer has any purpose for Orochimaru as his vessel, Kimimaro believes his existence has lost all meaning; however, he finds himself a chance to redeem his existence when he decides to devote his remaining lifespan to ensure that Sasuke, Orochimaru's future vessel, is brought to Otogakure.

Meanwhile, the
Sasuke Recovery Team
 is catching up to
Tayuya
 and
Sakon and Ukon
.
Kiba
 and
Akamaru
 decide to wait until it's dark to ambush them, but Shikamaru states that they will be fumbling blindly in the dark while also giving up their positions, thereby giving the enemy the advantage; on top of that,
Shikamaru
 would be unable to use his
Shadow Imitation Technique
. Despite Kiba's protests,
Naruto
 states that they need to trust in their team leader's plan.

After fighting each to the death,
Gen'yūmaru
, the sole surviving prisoner, is chosen to be Orochimaru's new vessel. Orochimaru promises to grant him one wish before taking his body, and Gen'yūmaru asks if Orochimaru could stop performing experiments on the members of his clan. Orochimaru gives his word to Gen'yūmaru before using his
Living Corpse Reincarnation
 technique to take over Gen'yūmaru's body. At the same time, Kimimaro leaves Otogakure to retrieve Sasuke.

As Tayuya, Sakon and Ukon run through the forests, they wonder what is taking
Jirōbō
 and
Kidōmaru
 so long to catch up. They stop after Tayuya notices a kick from within the container Sasuke is in. Before she can check on it, she spots Naruto watching them from a tree branch. As she guards the container, Sakon and Ukon try to take down Naruto, only to be ambushed by Kiba and Shikamaru. As Sakon deals with those two, Naruto uses his
Shadow Clone Technique
 and prepares his
Rasengan
. It turns out that "Kiba" and "Shikamaru" are none other than transformed shadow clones, and Naruto tries to hit Sakon with his Rasengan, only for Sakon to grab his hand and dispel the technique. The real Kiba then uses his
Passing Fang
 to go through Naruto, who is revealed to be just a shadow clone, in an attempt to hit Sakon. Sakon easily jumps out the way, but Kiba keeps going, heading towards Tayuya. Realising that she was the intended target all along, Tayuya attempts to grab the container containing Sasuke and flee, only to be trapped in place by Shikamaru and his Shadow Imitation technique. Kiba manages to cancel his Passing Fang right before he hits Tayuya, and grabs the container and tosses it to Naruto. Sakon, who is plummeting towards Kiba, is unable to change his trajectory and heads towards Tayuya. Shikamaru cancels his technique just before Sakon hits Tayuya, avoiding getting injured himself. The team then take the container and flee, only for an incensed Sakon to activate his
cursed seal
 and go after them.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Maile Flanagan
Shikamaru Nara
Shotaro Morikubo
森久保 祥太郎
Morikubo Shōtarō
Tom Gibis
Kiba Inuzuka
Kosuke Toriumi
鳥海 浩輔
Toriumi Kōsuke
Kyle Hebert
Kimimaro
Toshiyuki Morikawa
森川 智之
Morikawa Toshiyuki
Keith Silverstein
Sakon
Shunsuke Sakuya
咲野 俊介
Sakuya Shunsuke
Brian Beacock
Tayuya
Akeno Watanabe
渡辺 明乃
Watanabe Akeno
Kari Wahlgren
Orochimaru
Kujira
くじら
Kujira
Steve Blum
Kabuto Yakushi
Nobutoshi Kanna
神奈 延年
Kanna Nobutoshi
Henry Dittman
Man who became "vessel"
Takashi Mito
三戸 貴史
Mito Takashi
Johnny Yong Bosch
Kimimaro (boyhood)
Makoto Tsumura
津村 まこと
Tsumura Makoto
Kari Wahlgren