This article is about the episode.  For other uses, see
The New Team 7 (disambiguation)
.

"
The New Team 7
" (
新生第七班
,
Shinsei Dainanahan
) is episode 206 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Boruto
,
Sarada
,
Mitsuki
, and
Kawaki
 arrive at
another dimension
. On the lookout for
Jigen
, they're called out by
Boro
, he and Kawaki recognising each other. Kawaki clarifies to Boruto that he isn't Jigen, but that in some ways, Boro is worse than him.
Shikamaru
 is stressed about how little they know about they enemy and hopes the children come back safely. Boro notes the place is only accessible through
space–time ninjutsu
 and asks how Kawaki managed it. Kawaki ignores it and asks about
Naruto
. Boro teases him, revealing Naruto is sealed in the container he's holding. He throws the container at them for they to examine. He reveals only Jigen can undo the seal, and he can't vouch for the safety of the contents if it's forced open or destroyed. Kawaki confirms Naruto's chakra is inside the container, sensing it with his prosthetic hand. When they turn their attention back to Boro, he's vanished.
 Sarada detects Boro's attack from below, a
surge of acid
. Kawaki notices the acid engulfing Naruto's seal, and absorbs it with his
Kāma
. Boro attacks Kawaki while he's distracting checking the seal, so Boruto absorbs the next acid attack. Boro confirms
Delta
's intel of Boruto having a Kāma, and Boruto accuses him of being a coward, only attacking from a distance and sneaking around. Boro challenges Boruto to come at him if he's not all talk. Boro weaves
hand seals
 as Boruto rushes at him, despite Sarada's warnings. Boruto aims a
Rasengan
 at Boro, and Kawaki pushes him out of the way of the next acid attack. Boruto's Rasengan gets bigger when Kawaki touches him, so he pushes him at Boro, landing it. Boro
regenerates
 the damage, to everyone's amazement. Kawaki wants to injure him so much that his regeneration can't keep up. Sarada notices him weaving seals again. Kawaki hits him with his
modified arm
, throwing him around, and teeing him up for Boruto's Rasengan. Boruto falls to the ground, and Kawaki suddenly struggles to move as well. Boro chides them for their recklessness. Kawaki notices a
dark mist
 from Boro's ninjutsu, but can't absorb it with his Kāma. Boro kicks him aside. Sarada speculates on the seals Boro has been weaving, and why they can't absorb his mist when they were able to absorb his attacks earlier. Boro address Boruto as
Momoshiki
's vessel, and thanks him for eliminating the time constraints on
Kara
's plans. Mitsuki attacks with a
Wind Release
, pushing Boro aside, but his mist quickly gathers again. Boro boasts that his mist is already eating away at their bodies. Mitsuki attacks with a
lightning snake
, which Boro blocks with a
water wall
. Mitsuki's
actual snakes
 go around the wall and wrap around Boro, who pulls them and uses them to throw Mitsuki at the ground. As the snakes let go, one of them has
envenomed
 him, but he simply weaves seals and heals. Mitsuki is concerned with prolonged exposure to the mist, and Boro prepares to kill him, as he's only interested in the vessels. Sarada
punches
 a boulder at him, giving herself and Mitsuki time to get Boruto and Kawaki, and retreat. Boro is certain that Kawaki will return, as he still has the
Hokage
. The children discuss Boro's jutsu. Sarada saw him weave seals, so she's sure he's using ninjutsu. Boruto shares how the mist makes them feel, and Kawaki explains that Kāma can only absorb chakra based matter, leading them to conclude Boro's jutsu is physical matter. Boruto and Kawaki pass out. Mitsuki has his snakes bite them, and shares his hypothesis with Sarada, that the mist is a virus. Boruto and Kawaki wake up, able to move again, and since Boro is using a real virus for his jutsu, Sarada and Mitsuki deduce he's using
scientific ninja tools
. Mitsuki nominates Sarada for team captain over her strategic retreat. Sarada addresses Boro, saying they have figured out his jutsu. Boro preaches how his virus can be used to make people believe in miracles to save them from a hellish world. He attacks with his
Lava Release
, and Sarada counters with her
Fire Release
 and keeps her distance to avoid the virus. Boruto and Kawaki discuss the power boost that happened to the Rasengan earlier. Sarada attacks with
Fire Release
 again, and Boro blocks it with
Water Release
. He circles her, surrounding her with the virus mist. She tries to jump up, but Boro expected this, and punches her back down at the virus mist. He picks her up by the neck, but is surprised when she's still able to move as she obscures his vision with a point blank Fire Release and lands a punch. She signals for Boruto and Kawaki to attack, their Kāma activated, surprising him again. He weaves hand seals. Boruto lands a Rasengan, which is
augmented by resonance
 with Kawaki, destroying much of Boro's upper body, including his head. Boruto comments the use of antibodies worked, showing the snake bites on his arm. Boro regenerates from the damage, shocking them all.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Kawaki
Yuma Uchida
内田 雄馬
Uchida Yūma
Shikamaru Nara
Shotaro Morikubo
森久保 祥太郎
Morikubo Shōtarō
Boro
Kenta Miyake
三宅 健太
Miyake Kenta