"
The Conclusion to a Fierce Battle!
" (
激闘決着!
,
Gekitō Kecchaku!
,
Viz:
 Fierce Battle Conclusion!) is chapter 22 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 manga.

Summary

Boruto
 notes his wasn't a finishing blow.
Ao
 notes his jutsu absorption arm has been destroyed and removes it.
Konohamaru
 detects an incoming attack on Boruto, pushes him out of the way, and is hit by attacks from Ao's drones up in the sky, being knocked unconscious.
Sarada
 and
Mitsuki
 tend to Konohamaru.
Katasuke
 surmises the drones are controlled remotely by Ao's chakra. Boruto comments how un-shinobi like Ao's fighting style is. Ao declares he's no longer a shinobi, having transcended into a new kind of human being, and sends the drones up in the air to attack. Mitsuki and Sarada retreat with Katasuke and Konohamaru, while Boruto absorbs the attacks with his jutsu absorption arm. Ao praises him for having pushed him so far into using the drones.
 The others watch worriedly from afar. Ao stops his drone attacks, and Boruto attacks with shadow clones. Ao destroys the clones and grabs hold of Boruto, who has the absorption arm, commenting how the
Shadow Clone Technique
, despite its power, can't copy such complex machinery. As he readies his chakra blade, Ao comments on how Boruto would have died when they first met had they already been enemies. Sarada tries interfering, but Mitsuki stops her, saving her from drone attacks. Ao tells he'll go for her once he's done with Boruto. Boruto says Ao already lost as a shinobi, dispersing the shadow clone with the absorption arm, emerging from rubble behind Ao with his chakra blade, and commenting how shinobi must read underneath what's underneath. Boruto slices off Ao's prosthetic left arm and leg, and lands another
Rasengan
, sending Ao crashing into the nearby ruins. Ao admits defeat, and is surprised when Boruto just places the screwdriver from before next to him instead of finishing him off. Ao warns him that being as soft with his enemies as Naruto was will be fatal one day. Konohamaru regains consciousness and is impressed that they defeated Ao. Boruto admonishes Ao for killing
Mugino
. Konohamaru wants Ao extradited to
Konohagakure
, and instructs Boruto to ask for reinforcements. Katasuke looks forward to what the future holds for the genin. Ao notices
Koji Kashin
 in the ruins above him, yelling out his name, drawing everyone's attention. Koji Kashin summons a giant toad, that causes the structure to collapse. Ao uses a
Water Release
 to push Boruto away, before being crushed to death by the toad. Koji Kashin wonders what motivated Ao to use
ninjutsu
 at the very last moment, and introduces himself to Team Konohamaru and Katasuke.