This article is about the chapter. For the episode, see
The All-Knowing
.

"
The Ones Who Know Everything
" (
全てを知る者たち
,
Subete o Shiru Monotachi
,
Viz:
 The All-Knowing) is chapter 618 of the original
Naruto
 manga.

Summary

Orochimaru brings
Sasuke
,
Suigetsu
 and
Jūgo
 to the ruined
Uzumaki Clan's Mask Storage Temple
. Inside,
Orochimaru
 searches for a
particular mask
, disturbing
Suigetsu
 who found it strange that he knew exactly which one to choose. As they head back towards the village, Sasuke breaks away from the group to survey the village from a high point, which Orochimaru comments as something he needs to do as
Konoha
 is still his birthplace. Arriving at the
Uchiha clan
's destroyed compound, Sasuke
unseals the passageway
 leading towards the secret room of the
Naka Shrine
, lamenting its current condition. There, Orochimaru dons the mask which invokes the
Shinigami
, and explaining as he went along, slashes the Shinigami's stomach releasing the contents. These turn out to be the spirits of those the Shinigami had consumed, which returns Orochimaru's hands to him, but has the negative effect of reflecting the wound on him as well. On Orochimaru's instructions, Jūgo uses
natural energy
 to activate the
spores

Obito
 had
Zetsu
 leave on Sasuke to monitor him: six in total. Sacrificing four of them while Jūgo and
Suigetsu
 held down the other two, Orochimaru uses the
Summoning: Impure World Reincarnation
 and then transfers his being into one of the restrained Zetsu while Jūgo absorbed the other. The screaming White Zetsu spore clones are silenced once shrouded in dirt and ash, turned into the vessels of the men who collectively possessed knowledge of Konoha's history: the deceased
First
,
Second
,
Third
 and
Fourth Hokage
.

Trivia

Sasuke's scene where he commented the village had changed a lot was reminiscent of Naruto's scene at the beginning of Part II. Unlike Naruto who commented the village hasn't changed one bit, Sasuke commented the village had changed a lot. This symbolised how much they had changed since leaving the village of the end of Part I. Naruto, having changed very little if not all, commented the village hadn't change one bit whereas Sasuke, having changed a lot, commented the village had changed a lot.