This article is about the chapter. For the volume, see
The Domain of Gods
.

"
The Domain of Gods
" (
神の領域
,
Kami no Ryōiki
) is chapter 75 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 manga.

Summary

Amado
 summarises
Ada
's and
Daemon
's abilities.
Boruto
 is sceptical of Daemon
reflecting
 even murderous intent, but
Kawaki
 tests it and confirms it, receiving a hit from just thinking it.
Naruto
 asks Amado how he developed such abilities, and he explains he is only human, and didn't create the abilities, having merely transplanted them. Amado elaborates that these abilities were developed by
Shibai Ōtsutsuki
, who ascended to godhood by repeatedly consuming several
Chakra Fruits
 and resurrecting through
Kāma
, of whom only his corpse remains. Transplanting DNA from Shibai's remains sometimes grants the recipient one or more of his abilities.
Shikamaru
 checks with
Katasuke
, who while not confident the transplanting of such abilities can be achieved through human technology, the advanced technology he has witnessed in the airship and in Kawaki's body makes him consider the possibility. Amado is offended by Shikamaru's distrust. Giving examples of Shibai's abilities, he explains those were not
ninjutsu
 or
senjutsu
, but rather divine miracles called
shinjutsu
, of which he deems ninjutsu merely an attempt to replicate, which offends
Sarada
.
 He clarifies which abilities from
Isshiki
 and
Code
 are also shinjutsu, including Kāma. Shikamaru asks how Shibai is dead when Kāma allows one to live forever, and if he was killed. Amado admits he doesn't know, and theorises that Shibai may have evolved so much he reached a form that foregoes the need for a physical body, and discarded it. Amado explains that
Ōtsutsuki
 shinjutsu gives him hope to resurrect his daughter.
Delta
 approaches Sarada and
Mitsuki
, asking permission to see Aida. Sarada refuses, seeing she's particularly affected by Ada's enchanting ability.
Sumire
 arrives and issues Delta's shutdown code. They note that Ada's ability is very strong, able to overcome Delta's programming, causing her to disobey Katasuke and Sumire. Mitsuki notes he needs to be careful, and Sarada realises Ada is more fearsome than she thought. Amado explains that his daughter
Akebi
, who died 12 years prior, suffered from a disease of unknown origin, for which there was no treatment or cure. He wasn't concerned about the illness, finding it better to give her a cloned body, which he already had more experience with instead of developing new medications, and having successfully preserved her brain, from which he was able to extract and digitise her memories. Nine months after Akebi's death at age 24, he completed Delta, who despite looking and sounding the same, and having all of her memories, had a completely different personality. He tried many times, but failed to bring Akebi back, which finally broke him. At that time Isshiki approached Amado as
Jigen
, promising him to reunite him with his daughter in exchange from helping him in his goal. He didn't know at the time that Isshiki's goal would doom the planet, making Akebi's resurrection moot. He still wants to resurrect his daughter, and having discovered Kāma resurrection, determined that what it does is precisely what he wanted for Akebi. Sumire now understands Amado's goal. Amado added Akebi's data to Kawaki's restored Kāma, wishing him to apply it to a cloned body he'll prepare, hoping to finally get his daughter back. Boruto confesses he thought Amado's goal was a lot more nefarious. Still suspicious, Shikamaru asks Ada to confirm Amado's claims.
Momoshiki
 contacts Boruto, their thoughts now able to crossover due to Boruto being restored with Momoshiki's data. He asks not to let Kawaki catch on, and voices his suspicion of Amado. He confirms the claims about Shibai, and has deep knowledge of all extant shinjutsu, confirming that the
Senrigan
 is a shinjutsu, but that her enchanting ability is not. Ada confirms that Akebi existed and died according to Amado's claim. Boruto asks Momoshiki about their situation, Momoshiki claiming their thoughts are available to each other against their wills. Boruto suddenly has a vision of his friends and other Konoha-nin chasing down Kawaki. Ada notices Boruto's expression.