"
The Consequences of Betrayal
" (
裏切りの果て
,
Uragiri no Hate
) is episode 45 of the
Naruto: Shippūden
 anime.

Synopsis

Naruto
 wonders what it means for there to be a plot to destroy
Konoha
.
Sakura
 tells him that
Danzō
 does not like
Tsunade
 because, as the favourite student of the
Third Hokage
 and the granddaughter of the
First Hokage
, she embodies
their principles
.
Yamato
 also reveals that Tsunade handpicked every member of Konoha's current hierarchy and everyone she selected also possesses those principles. Since Danzō does not agree with those principles, it is very likely that he is planning to collaborate with
Orochimaru
 to destroy Konoha, so that Tsunade would become ousted as
Hokage
 following the aftermath, allowing Danzō to become the new Hokage and to subsequently rebuild the village as he sees fit. Sakura deduces that while Orochimaru failed last time, Danzō is most likely offering internal support this time around, with
Sai
 being the mutual conduit. Yamato tells them that Sai must be eliminated, and decides to follow Orochimaru, Sai and
Kabuto
. However, Naruto is still unable to properly see or move. Sakura wishes to wait until he recovers, but Yamato tells her to leave him where he is. Sakura alerts him that
Kakashi
 would never have done that, prompting Yamato to tell her that he and Kakashi are different and that they are not children to be protected. As
shinobi
 of Konoha, they need to surpass Kakashi and complete their mission. Naruto manages to get up and tells Yamato that he will be able to keep up, and the team sets off.

Yamato's
wood clone
 continues to pursue Orochimaru, Sai and Kabuto, and they decide to set a trap. Kabuto creates a corpse that resembles Sai and rigs it with
kunai
,
shuriken
 and
explosive tags
. Yamato's wood clone inadvertently triggers the trap, cutting off his communication with the real Yamato.

As Yamato, Naruto and Sakura attempt to pursue them through the forest, Naruto's vision becomes blurred, causing him to nearly hit a tree trunk. He manoeuvres himself out of the way in the nick of time, and Sakura, who was keeping her eyes on Naruto, attempts to get to higher ground as well; however, the wound in her right arm causes her to release her grip and she plummets. Naruto attempts to catch her in mid-air but fails, and Yamato speeds to the ground in order to safely catch her. Naruto notices the wound on her arm and asks how she got it, prompting Sakura to lie to him that it was caused by Orochimaru. She tells them that she will be fine, but Yamato tells her to rest. Despite his initial words that they could not waste any time in their pursuit, Yamato explains that there is a difference between rushing and being reckless. As Sakura attempts to heal her wounds (to no avail), Yamato appoints Naruto as his new combat partner and begins to walk into the woods in order for the pair to develop a battle strategy. However, as soon as they get out of Sakura's earshot, Yamato tells Naruto that he was the one who caused Sakura's injury.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Maile Flanagan
Sakura Haruno
Chie Nakamura
中村 千絵
Nakamura Chie
Kate Higgins
Sai
Satoshi Hino
日野 聡
Hino Satoshi
Benjamin Diskin
Yamato
Rikiya Koyama
小山 力也
Koyama Rikiya
Troy Baker
Orochimaru
Kujira
くじら
Kujira
Steve Blum
Kabuto Yakushi
Nobutoshi Kanna
神奈 延年
Kanna Nobutoshi
Henry Dittman