"
The Sneaking Shadow
" (
忍び寄る影
,
Shinobiyoru Kage
) is episode 269 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Hana
's class visits her in the hospital after her injury in the attack on the festival, and wish her a swift recovery. Because of her injuries, her memories of the assailant are hazy.
Kawaki
 is admonished by
Shikamaru
,
Sai
, and
Naruto
 about failing to report his suspicion of an assassin, and is taken off the
mission
. The search for the assassin continues, and
Kae
 is likely to return to the
Land of Bamboo
.
Shino
 and
Anko
 discuss the incident, and decide not to tell Hana about Kae being the target. Kae is heavily guarded, and
Batora
 informs that her father asked for her return. She misses her friends, and feels that Kawaki only got close to her for his mission.
Kōtarō
 finishes interviewing
Eiki
, Kawaki, and
Himawari
 about the incident. Himawari convinces Kawaki to keep protecting Kae, and continues to help herself, despite Kawaki finding it too dangerous for her. They decide to rely on Eiki for information, keeping that Kae was the target a secret. From what Eiki gathered, they have an idea where the culprit might have been, so they decide to look through
Sōsha
's photos. Batora tells Kae that Kawaki was likely forbidden from telling anyone about his mission, and speculates that he failed to report the assassin so as to prevent the festival Kae was looking forward to from being cancelled.
 Kae wants to ask him herself. Sōsha finds it strange that those three are working together, but relents when Eiki claims he's looking for a girl he has crush on. Looking through the photos, Himawari spots Batora on one of them, which is strange as he said he couldn't attend the festival. They keep it from Eiki and rush out, as Kae is with Batora. Kae finishes a letter, and the lights go out. Batora arrives at her room. Kawaki and Himawari arrive to find the Konoha guards knocked out. Kawaki spots Batora with a kunai, and breaks through the window. Batora has an injury caused the assassin. Kawaki chases the assassin, while Himawari protects Kae. The assassin attacks Kawaki with
dark flames
 that chase him around. He dodges them, and beats the assassin down. Before he can discover their identity, the assassin reveals
explosive tags
 around their body, and detonates them. After the police process the scene, Kōtarō asks Kawaki about his presence, and he claims he was visiting a friend. He'll report this to the Hokage's office. Kawaki checks on Kae, who's bandaging Batora. He asks why he was at the festival, and he says he was investigating someone suspicious who might have sneaked into the village. He lost track of them at the
Academy
. Batora feels indebted to Kae's father for taking him in. Batora and Himawari point out Kawaki's concern for Kae on what he does and does not do. The next day, Eiki asks about where they went, and Sōsha publishes a story about Eiki's new crush. Naruto reports that they'll overlook Kawaki's failure on account of his protecting Kae, though her father has withdrawn the mission, the plot's mastermind having been arrested back at the Land of Bamboo, after communications were discovered based on evidence Batora uncovered. It was the
minister
 and guardian of Kae's younger stepbrother. They seemingly got into
Konoha
 around the same time Kae arrived. The Land of Bamboo wants Konoha to send them all the information to avoid other nations learning of their infighting. Kawaki, however, finds it all too convenient.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Kawaki
Yuma Uchida
内田 雄馬
Uchida Yūma
Himawari Uzumaki
Saori Hayami
早見 沙織
Hayami Saori
Kae Yukiwari
Inori Minase
水瀬 いのり
Minase Inori
Batora Kuromori
Isshin Chiba
千葉 一伸
Chiba Isshin
Anko Mitarashi
Takako Honda
本田 貴子
Honda Takako
Shino Aburame
Shinji Kawada
川田 紳司
Kawada Shinji
Hana Kaka
Mai Nakahara
中原 麻衣
Nakahara Mai
Ehō Norimaki
Ryoko Shiraishi
白石 涼子
Shiraishi Ryōko
Sōsha Amino
Yuka Saito
斉藤 佑圭
Saitō Yuka
Osuka Kamakura
Rina Hidaka
日高 里菜
Hidaka Rina
Eiki Fūma
Takuto Yoshinaga
吉永 拓斗
Yoshinaga Takuto
Konashi Nerikiri
Kazutomi Yamamoto
山本 和臣
Yamamoto Kazutomi
Soul Tao
Akane Yamaguchi
山口 茜
Yamaguchi Akane
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Shikamaru Nara
Shotaro Morikubo
森久保 祥太郎
Morikubo Shōtarō
Sai Yamanaka
Satoshi Hino
日野 聡
Hino Satoshi
Kōtarō Fūma
Anri Katsu
勝 杏里
Katsu Anri
Police Force shinobi
Ryo Nishitani
西谷 亮
Nishitani Ryō