This article is about chapter 660. For episode 392, see
The Hidden Heart
.

"
The Hidden Heart
" (
裏の心
,
Ura no Kokoro
,
Viz:
 One's True Heart) is chapter 660 of the original
Naruto
 manga.

Summary

As the two targeted
jinchūriki
 continue to struggle against their
restraints
,
Naruto
 attempts to withdraw the
Tailed Beast Mode
, but finds that he cannot suppress
Kurama
's chakra as
Madara
 deemed his efforts futile. The
White Zetsu Army
 clone inquires as to why
Madara
 did not go after
Shukaku
 first. Readjusting his strategy after contemplating his minion's words, Madara turns his focus on the One-Tail. Intercepting Madara's assault, however,
Gaara
 creates two enormous
sand-hands
 to help stop the chain from dragging the tanuki into the
Demonic Statue of the Outer Path
.
 Declaring that he would not let Madara have the beast, Shukaku is shocked by the
Kazekage
's actions; which causes the beast to remember the time when it was sealed within Gaara as a child and its declaration to prey upon his mind, should he ever fall into deep sleep.

As the memories came pouring in, Shukaku also remembers the words of his
previous jinchūriki
: the priest who had foretold the beast of the day someone would come who would cause the beast to understand the words which were carved into his own hands: "heart" and "acceptance". This lead Shukaku to notice that the kanji for the word "love" (which was craved on Gaara's forehead) was actually a combination for the kanji for "acceptance" and "heart". As the White Zetsu Army clone decries Gaara's actions — having protected the creature which caused him to suffer for so long, and also that Gaara won't die even if Shukaku is sealed in the Demonic Statue — Madara equips his
Susanoo
 and launches one of its
swords
 at Gaara. As the sword hurtles towards Gaara, Shukaku intercepts it, declaring that it prided itself on its Absolute Defence after all. Manipulating the sword to boomerang across the battlefield, Madara is able to break the section of the chain Gaara held and reconnect it to the beast all while sending the sword directly at Gaara whose automatic defence protects him against the attack, but he is still knocked down. Telling the young man not to overdo it, Gaara notes that because he was no longer a jinchūriki, he could stay up as late as he wanted, as Shukaku's equal. As the beasts get dragged in,
B
 severs one of his own tentacles, while Kurama calls out to Gaara to ask a favour. Naruto is then ejected from his Tailed Beast Mode shroud. Gaara calls out to Naruto, who begins to fall to the ground.