"
The Value of a Hidden Ace
" (
切り札の価値
,
Kirifuda no Kachi
) is episode 150 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Tentō
 practices
shurikenjutsu
, remembering
Boruto
's words, determined to impress his father.
Yamaoka
 arrives and tells him he's seen a suspicious man pretending to be a bodyguard, and fears for
Ikkyū
's life. Tentō wants to resolve the situation himself, and decides to investigate. Boruto tells
Sarada
 and
Mitsuki
 about Tentō and his escort mission. They find
Konohamaru
, who tells them they've been assigned a
B-rank
 mission, much to their excitement. He warns them of the dangers associated with a higher rank mission, but the
genin
 remain enthusiastic. Ikkyū sees Tentō's various card purchases, and remembering his talk with
Naruto
, decides to speak to him himself. Yamaoka takes Tentō to a secluded path, where a Mujina Bandit knocks him out. Ikkyū is informed both Tentō and Yamaoka are nowhere to be found. Walking around with Mitsuki, Boruto finds that Tentō slipped the card he's been after into his jacket, and though he wishes to keep it, Boruto rushes to return it. At the hotel, Boruto notices how many guards have been mobilised. Boruto tries finding Tentō's room, and overhears Ikkyū discussing Tentō's kidnapping. His captors claim to be the
Mujina Bandits
, they threaten to kill Tentō if Ikkyū lets the information go public, and their demands include 500 million ryō and the release of all the prisoners from
Hōzuki Castle
.
 Ikkyū deduces the bandits must have spies infiltrated either in
Konohagakure
 or among his staff, to be able to pull off the kidnapping with no witnesses. After hearing where the exchange is suppose to happen, Boruto rushes out. He informs Sarada he can't go on their mission, and she can tell by his tone it's something serious. She says she and Mitsuki will handle things, and he thanks her. Boruto doesn't inform Konoha, keeping in mind the possibility of there being a spy. Tentō is confused by his captors, and Shojoji drops his
Yamaoka
 disguise, revealing he
devoured
 the real Yamaoka to take his place. He introduces himself as a shinobi, and is displeased when Tentō has never heard of him, not being featured in collectable cards, but someone like
Orochimaru
 is. Boruto threatens a Mujina Bandit at the exchange point to take him to their hideout. Sarada informs Mitsuki of Boruto's situation. Shojoji mocks Tentō's attempts to get away, and tells him he'll take Tentō's place, and when he's reunited with his father, he'll take Ikkyū's place as
daimyō
. Tentō sees his shuriken and the Naruto card Boruto gave him, and uses the shuriken to cut himself free. He tries killing himself to Shojoji can't use him against his father, but Shojoji stops him. Shojoji prepares to eat Tentō's brain for his jutsu, but is interrupted by Boruto.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Konohamaru Sarutobi
Hidenori Takahashi
高橋 英則
Takahashi Hidenori
Tentō Madoka
Azusa Tadokoro
田所 あずさ
Tadokoro Azusa
Ikkyū Madoka
Tomoyuki Shimura
志村 知幸
Shimura Tomoyuki
Yamaoka
Shoto Kashii
樫井 笙人
Kashii Shōto
Shojoji
Naomi Kusumi
楠見 尚己
Kusumi Naomi
Guard
Yo Tokinaga
時永 洋
Tokinaga Yō
Mujina Bandits member
Kazuya Saji
Daichi Fujiwara
Kosuke Katayama
佐治 和也
藤原 大智
片山 公輔
Saji Kazuya
Fujiwara Daichi
Katayama Kōsuke