"
The Little Roommate
" (
小さな同居人
,
Chīsana Dōkyonin
) is episode 104 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Walking around
Konoha
 at night,
Mitsuki
 passes by a cat. As he walks away, its kitten looks at him.
Kōtarō Fūma
 and the police pursue
Nezumi
, a jewel thief, aided by
Team 7
. Nezumi disappears just as the two groups are about to corner him, leading them to a group of drunks. Thinking Nezumi is among them in disguise, Kōtarō apprehends all of them to clear them one by one. Team 7 believes the mission to be over, and find a kitten, lost and shaking.
Sarada
's building doesn't allow pets, and
Boruto
 has to ask his mother permission, so Mitsuki ends up responsible for the kitten. On his way home, a passerby tells Mitsuki should hold it in a gentler manner. Sarada and Boruto discuss whether Mitsuki will know how to take care of it, Sarada wishing Boruto had taken it. He says he might convince their parents if
Himawari
 supports him. At Mitsuki's home, the kitten quickly gets stuck in the window blind strings, and knocks a portrait down. It insists on sleeping with Mitsuki on his bed until he relents. The next day, Kōtarō informs
Konohamaru
 none of the men they apprehended had the stolen jewel, so they can't hold any of them. Kōtarō orders two other cops to keep an eye of them. Nezumi smirks as he walks free.
 At the
Lightning Burger
, Sarada informs Boruto and Mitsuki of the case developments, and asks Mitsuki about the kitten. Boruto informs them his mother and Himawari went to visit
Hiashi
, and won't be home for a few days. Boruto suggests Mitsuki to name the kitten. When Mitsuki intends to buy the kitten a hamburger, Sarada tells him he can't give pets human food. Mitsuki buys what he needs at a pet shop. Arriving home, Mitsuki looks for the kitten until finding it under his pillow. Thinking about Boruto's suggestion, Mitsuki names the kitten
Mikazuki
, and puts a yellow collar on its neck. Nezumi watches Mitsuki's apartment from the street. Over the next day, Mitsuki plays and bonds with Mikazuki. The following day, Mikazuki is ill, so Mitsuki goes around the village trying to find help. He misses his meeting with Boruto and Sarada, who go looking for him. Nezumi follows Mitsuki from a distance. At the hospital, Nezumi steals Mikazuki while Mitsuki is distracted getting directions to a veterinarian. Nezumi runs past Sarada and Boruto, who join Mitsuki in chasing him. Mitsuki catches up to Nezumi, who tries claiming it's his kitten. Boruto recognises Nezumi as one of the four men the police had to release. Mitsuki recovers Mikazuki and rushes to the vet. Nezumi tries to flee, but is blocked by the police, who figured out he had the kitten swallow the stolen jewel. They arrest Nezumi. The veterinarian, who is the same men who advised Mitsuki how to hold Mikazuki, informs him the kitten will be fine. At the park, Mikazuki's parent shows up, and the two leave together. Boruto and Sarada ask if Mitsuki is fine, but he says he doesn't feel anything, and that Mikazuki will be happier with its parent. Mikazuki visits him at night, so Mitsuki decides to keep his window open from now on so Mikazuki can keep visiting, pointing out its fickleness.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Konohamaru Sarutobi
Hidenori Takahashi
高橋 英則
Takahashi Hidenori
Kōtarō Fūma
Anri Katsu
勝 杏里
Katsu Anri
Nezumi Kaitō
Hiromichi Tezuka
手塚 ヒロミチ
Tezuka Hiromichi
Veterinarian
Kazuya Saji
佐治 和也
Saji Kazuya
Pet shop clerk
Kumi Takaragi
宝木 久美
Takaragi Kumi
Hospital receptionist
Aoi Inase
いなせ あおい
Inase Aoi
Drunkards
Yo Tokinaga
Katsunori Okai
時永 洋
岡井 カツノリ
Tokinaga Yō
Okai Katsunori