This article is about the omake OVA. For the chapter, see
The Day Naruto Became Hokage
.

The Day Naruto Became Hokage
 (
ナルトが火影になった日
,
Naruto ga Hokage Ni Natta Hi
) is an
OVA
 that is included on the limited edition DVD and Blu-ray releases of
Boruto: Naruto the Movie
, released on July 6, 2016.

Summary

It's the morning of
Naruto
's
Hokage
 inauguration, but he is still asleep.
Hinata
 asks
Boruto
 and
Himawari
 to go wake him, and when Himawari's "cutesy" way fails, Boruto jumps on him. At the breakfast table, Hinata says she will go pick up his cloak before the ceremony in case it's not finished. Naruto remembers when
Kakashi
's cloak was not finished in time. Hinata instructs Naruto to go to the venue with the kids quickly while she picks up the cloak.

Upon arriving and finding that Naruto has not arrived, Hinata rushes home. Naruto is ready to go but Boruto and Himawari fight over a stuffed panda that Himawari wants to bring with her but Boruto says it will embarrass him in front of the villagers. As they have a tug-of-war over it, the panda rips in half. Angry, Himawari awakens the
Byakugan
 and attacks a terrified Boruto. Confused and alarmed, Naruto tries to stop the fight by saying they needed to stop it but is struck by Himawari's finger in the abdomen, and even causes
Kurama
 to react painfully, and knocks Naruto unconscious.

At the ceremony,
Sarada
 is in the audience with her mother and friends, and meets with
Chōchō
, who hopes the event will be over soon. Sarada silently wonders what's taking the Hokage so long to appear.
Kakashi
 tells
Shikamaru
 that they can't wait any longer and decide to have
Konohamaru
 impersonate as Naruto. As the inauguration begins,
Sakura
 voices her pride for Naruto achieving his dream while
Iruka
 says Naruto will be facing some hard times ahead. At the Uzumaki residence, Hinata finds Naruto unconscious due to all of his chakra points being hit, which will leave him out cold for the rest of the day, and wonders who could have done such a thing. Boruto is hiding in a closet from his sister, who enters the room with a homicidal look in her eyes and asking if he is playing hide-and-seek with her. When it seems that Himawari has found him, Boruto lets out a fearful scream.

Trivia

During the credits, drawn pictures of the aftermath are shown:

A drunk Naruto, Shikamaru,
Rock Lee
,
Chōji
,
Kiba
,
Sai
, and
Shino
 arrive at the Uzumaki's house.

Tsunade
 sitting in front of
Jiraiya's Memorial
, toasting with a cup of sake.

Naruto standing in front of his face on the
Hokage Rock
, resembling the cover of
volume 72
.

Naruto and
Gaara
 preparing to take a picture, with Hinata and
Temari
 standing next to them and Sakura standing next to
Genzō
.

A joyful Himawari running towards her father, who shakes in fear. Meanwhile, Kurama runs out of the picture.

Sasuke Uchiha
 travelling through Kaguya's
sand dimension
, with Sakura's
flak jacket
 lying in the sand.

A coloured picture of the Uzumaki family, with part of the aforementioned picture of Naruto and Gaara in the lower right corner and, in the upper left corner, another picture of what appears to be Boruto and Himawari running towards the camera.

Some scenes appear in
episode 18
 of
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

References