"
The Iron Wall's Sensing System
" (
鉄壁の感知システム
,
Teppeki no Kanchi Shisutemu
) is episode 177 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

The
Konoha Barrier Team
 run a successful trial of their new
sensing system
, using it to detect a disguised
Sai
. Several young shinobi are impressed, but
Inojin
 is uninterested.
Ino
 lectures them on the history of the barrier team, and how the new system has been improved and automated with the help of the
Scientific Ninja Weapons Team
. She explains that since the system can only detect unregistered chakra signatures once an intruder actually crosses the barrier, a swift response team is necessary. Ino has gathered shinobi with sensory skills to run an operational test and collect additional data. There will be organised infiltration teams, and their job will be to apprehend them.
Boruto
 and
Shikadai
 meet up with Inojin. Inojin explains he was asked to join because he scored good grades in sensing, having learned the basics from his mother from a young age. Boruto and Shikadai were asked to be part of the infiltration team, and as a
chūnin
, Shikadai was asked to memorise the newest additions to the
Bingo Book
. Fellow Yamanaka clansman
Kohan
 introduces himself as Inojin's partner for the trial, and thanks them for their contribution.
 Kohan didn't know Ino had a grown son, and warns he won't pull any punches. Inojin says he's not his mother, and is surprised she's so well-regarded, as he only ever saw her work in the flower shop. Inojin and Kohan receive a breach notification and depart. Inojin isn't able to apprehend a single target that morning, and Kohan is surprised to learn he never actually sensed before. Ino is excited about the trial, but apologises for making Inojin participate when he has little interest in the subject, and says he doesn't have to be part of the afternoon test. Inojin confesses to Sai he thinks Ino is disappointed in him. Sai explains that beyond being a Yamanaka, the reason Ino takes such interest and pride in sensing is because of
her father
, who died in the
war
. She was inspired by him, and doesn't force Inojin because she wants to inspire him as well. Inojin asks Kohan to help him hone his sensing. During the afternoon test, Inojin is able to find Shikadai, but actually detected someone else near him. Kohan checks in with the team, but the chakra signature Inojin sensed was registered. Inojin is still concerned about it, and Shikadai, knowing Inojin, convinces Kohan to pursue the matter, arguing that as a trial, this data should be significant. They meet up with Boruto, and go investigate. The person whose chakra he detected,
Mokume Arai
, was not even in the
village
, having left the day before on the train for a friend's wedding. They discuss the possibilities, and Shikadai recalls something from reading the Bingo Book.
Hyōi Yorishiro
 has the ability to mimic others' chakra, so he's capable of crossing the barrier without reading as an unrecognised signature. They report their findings and suspicions. They arrive at an area filled with people, and based on his earlier performance, Inojin doesn't think he can't cover such a wide area. Instead, he draws several birds with his
Super Beast Imitating Drawing
. As they're made with his chakra, he can use them as a medium to extend the scope of his sensing. They find and apprehend Hyōi. Kohan reports to Ino, who agrees Inojin isn't cut for sensing, but adds he doesn't have to be, and that's enough for her. She tells Inojin they'll make changes to the barrier to account for impostors. Inojin is worried she'll close the flower shop, but she says she treasures both, and tells him to do what he wants and not to worry.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Inojin Yamanaka
Atsushi Abe
阿部 敦
Abe Atsushi
Ino Yamanaka
Ryoka Yuzuki
柚木 涼香
Yuzuki Ryōka
Sai Yamanaka
Satoshi Hino
日野 聡
Hino Satoshi
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Shikadai Nara
Kensho Ono
小野 賢章
Ono Kenshō
Kohan Yamanaka
Reigo Yamaguchi
山口 令悟
Yamaguchi Reigo
Operator
Sara Matsumoto
松本 沙羅
Matsumoto Sara
Hyōi Yorishiro
Katsunori Okai
岡井 カツノリ
Okai Katsunori
Mokume Arai
Kazuya Saji
佐治 和也
Saji Kazuya
Clerk
Kosuke Katayama
片山 公輔
Katayama Kōsuke