"
The Cursed Forest
" (
呪われた森
,
Norowareta Mori
) is episode 98 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Mitsuki
 informs
Boruto
 they will be having a joint mission with
Team 15
. Boruto notices what appears to be a peeping tom, and startles him with a kunai, causing him to fall from a tree. They notice him holding a nest of eggs, and apologise to him while tending his fall.
Tosaka
 demonstrates his expertise, identifying the eggs by licking them. Tosaka returns the nest to the tree, and explains how genes determine species' traits. When Boruto says he's more than his genes, Tosaka asks to lick him, and the genin leave.
Konohamaru
 explains
Hanabi
 is aiding with border patrol due to an apparent infiltration, so he'll lead both teams.
Suika Kannonji
 tasks them with investigating bird attacks in village near the forests in the outskirts of the
Land of Fire
. As they don't have experience with birds, Tosaka was assigned to provide assistance. On their way,
Sarada
 is disgusted when Tosaka licks bird droppings to confirm their diet. Team 15 plans to leverage their experience from a previous animal related mission. The group spends the following day researching, with
Wasabi
 using her
Cat Covering
 cover ground. Near the village, Tosaka notices a lack of bird chirping. They rescue a villager being attacked. Boruto is approached by a fully transformed and berserk
Jūgo
. Jūgo pins him down near a ledge, but is pushed down a river by
Nue
. Boruto thanks
Sumire
. The two return to the group, who is tending to the villager's injuries, and alert them of the monster they fought.

Namida
 notices something with Sumire. They notice the villager's breathing is getting shallower, and his temperature is rising. They arrive at the village, and Tosaka speculates it's bird-borne disease. A village elder explains the birds began changing a month ago, destroying crops and attacking people, and also beastly cries can be heard from the forest. They add the first to change were the water fowls, from the river that comes from the mountain, runs along the village, and flows into the
Land of Rivers
. Konohamaru advises them to stay away from the river, and use only well water for their needs. A pattern starts appearing where the villager was injured, and Konohamaru is shown other villagers with the same spreading pattern. The villagers bring an unconscious Jūgo who was found by the river. Sarada and Mitsuki recognise him, and Jūgo claims he slipped an fell into the river when he wakes up. Nue is apprehensive of him. One of the sick villagers wakes up and attacks Tosaka. Konohamaru has the genin evacuate the villagers while he deals with the berserk villager. Jūgo lures the villager and knocks him out, concealing a partial transformation, and tells Boruto to stay away from the forest before leaving. Mitsuki notices the villager no longer has the pattern on him. Konohamaru explains the nature of Cursed Seals to the genin, and is suspicious of Jūgo's involvement due to his association with
Orochimaru
, who uses
Cursed Seals
. The group splits to cover more ground. Boruto throws a rock to confirm a suspicion he had based on the villager's testimony, that the cries were echos. They determine the source of the sound, a cave entrance with a door. They find Jūgo struggling to contain his transformation at the end of the cave, and Boruto recognises him as the monster who attacked him, warning Sarada they need to flee. Jūgo turns around announcing he'll kill them.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Konohamaru Sarutobi
Hidenori Takahashi
高橋 英則
Takahashi Hidenori
Jūgo
Shuhei Sakaguchi
阪口 周平
Sakaguchi Shūhei
Sumire Kakei
Aya Endo
遠藤 綾
Endō Aya
Wasabi Izuno
Natsumi Yamada
山田 奈都美
Yamada Natsumi
Namida Suzumeno
Sara Matsumoto
松本 沙羅
Matsumoto Sara
Nue
Shinya Hamazoe
浜添 伸也
Hamazoe Shin'ya
Tosaka
Takehito Koyasu
子安 武人
Koyasu Takehito
Suika Kannonji
Mariko Higashiuchi
東内 マリ子
Higashiuchi Mariko
Village headman
Minoru Kawai
河合 みのる
Kawai Minoru
Villagers
Yo Tokinaga
Katsunori Okai
時永 洋
岡井 カツノリ
Tokinaga Yō
Okai Katsunori