"
The Mysterious Transfer Student!
" (
謎の転校生…!!
,
Nazo no Tenkōsei…!!
) is episode 5 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

An expelled
Academy student
 causes a commotion in revenge.
Boruto
 perceives the same dark aura in the student as he did in others before.
Iwabee
 covers Boruto from the student's attack, allowing to land a hit. Being out-numbered, the student kicks up some dust for cover to escape. Boruto gives chase, and finds the student knocked out by a young man, who notes Konoha to be rather rowdy. Later,
Shino
 introduces the class to
Mitsuki
, the new student from
Otogakure
. The students discuss their new classmate among themselves, the boys about his skills, and the girls about his looks.
Sumire
 asks the students not to talk over Shino. Mitsuki sits by Boruto, striking up a conversation.
 During class, Boruto solves a problem on the board with ease, surprising Iwabee. Shino tells Boruto to solve the problem as instructed, but Boruto prefers doing it his way, and mockingly asks for something more advanced. Shino gives him a much tougher problem to solve, and Boruto accuses him of being a sore loser. Mitsuki solves the problem, impressing the others. He and Shino briefly discuss if students should help each other or learn to solve problems by themselves. During sparring, Iwabee and Boruto are paired off, and Iwabee manages to best him. Afterwards, Mitsuki asks to fight Iwabee. As they spar, Mitsuki gets carried away, seriously choking him, despite Shino telling him to stop. Boruto manages to snap him out of it, berating him for going too far. Mitsuki apologises to Iwabee. At night, Shino eats with
Kurenai
, airing his struggles as a teacher. Kurenai advises him to do things his way. Mitsuki talks to someone through a white snake. The next day, Shino throws a welcome party for Mitsuki. Sumire asks Shino about his efforts, and he explains his own difficulties having friends in the past. Shino's insects act up, ruining the party.
Denki
 asks to get rid of them, and Mitsuki obliges, using
Wind Release
 to clear the insects, but ends up damaging the Academy even more. The students talk about Shino, unimpressed by him, which he overhears, getting him in a sullen mood. After first period, Shino asks for time off. A ruckus starts happening at the Academy,  as one of the repairman begins rampaging, destroying what's left of the Academy under the influence of the dark spectre. Mitsuki comments on Boruto's ability to see it, piquing
Shikadai
's interest, who speculates that Mitsuki is the reason people are acting out.
Sarada
 distracts the repairman, allowing Shikadai to pin him down for Iwabee to strike. However, he doesn't go down, so Boruto tackles him, and the two fall over a balcony. Mitsuki cushions their fall with his Wind Release, and the dark spectre leaves the repairman. Boruto thanks Mitsuki for saving his life. Later, Shino gets frustrated over his students' disrespect, and the dark spectre takes him over. The next day, Shino asks Boruto, Shikadai, and Mitsuki for an extracurricular lesson. As they ponder why they specifically were called, Mitsuki notices Shino's arrival. Boruto moves to greet him, but the boys notice that something is off about their teacher. Shino declares that he will give them their final lesson.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Amanda Miller
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Cherami Leigh
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Robbie Daymond
Shikadai Nara
Kensho Ono
小野 賢章
Ono Kenshō
Todd Haberkorn
Chōchō Akimichi
Ryoko Shiraishi
白石 涼子
Shiraishi Ryōko
Colleen O'Shaughnessey
Inojin Yamanaka
Atsushi Abe
阿部 敦
Abe Atsushi
Spike Spencer
Metal Lee
Ryo Nishitani
西谷 亮
Nishitani Ryō
Billy Kametz
Denki Kaminarimon
Chihiro Ikki
一木 千洋
Ikki Chihiro
Erica Mendez
Iwabee Yuino
Shinya Hamazoe
浜添 伸也
Hamazoe Shin'ya
Ray Chase
Sumire Kakei
Aya Endo
遠藤 綾
Endō Aya
Erica Lindbeck
Wasabi Izuno
Natsumi Yamada
山田 奈都美
Yamada Natsumi
Cassandra Morris
Namida Suzumeno
Sara Matsumoto
松本 沙羅
Matsumoto Sara
Tara Sands
Shino Aburame
Shinji Kawada
川田 紳司
Kawada Shinji
Derek Stephen Prince
Iruka Umino
Toshihiko Seki
関 俊彦
Seki Toshihiko
Kyle McCarley
Kurenai Sarutobi
Rumi Ochiai
落合 るみ
Ochiai Rumi
Mary Elizabeth McGlynn
Public worker shinobi
Hirokazu Sekido
関戸 博一
Sekido Hirokazu
Mick Wingert
Giant boy
Kazuki Ota
太田 一騎
Ōta Kazuki
Christopher Niosi