"
The Burden of Being a Kage
" (
影を背負う
,
Kage o Seou
,
Viz:
 Burden of a Kage) is chapter 588 of the original
Naruto
 manga.

Summary

As
Kabuto
 remains incapacitated by
Izanami
,
Sasuke
 questions whether undoing the
Impure World Reincarnation
 would not mean
Itachi
 would disappear as well. Declaring that he no longer had any attachment to the world of the living, Itachi notes that he was proud to be able to protect
Konohagakure
 once more. Enraged to hear Itachi's motives, Sasuke states that while he could forgive his brother, he could never forgive the village for what they had done. This leads Itachi to tell his little brother that he won't be the one to change him and that he was doing this to aid
Naruto Uzumaki
 — whom he had entrusted that task to. Itachi then proceeds to raise the
brille
 over Kabuto's eyes and uses
genjutsu
 to order Kabuto to teach him the
hand seals
 needed to stop the Impure World Reincarnation. Meanwhile, the five
Kage
 struggle to hold their own against
Madara
's twenty-five
Susanoo
-clad
wood clones
. Amidst all the struggles, Ōnoki rallies them to fight on having been entrusted with a great task at which they could not fail. Madara notes that he needed to break Ōnoki's will as it was the most troublesome of all. Rallying to each other's side,
Tsunade

transfers

chakra
 to Ōnoki who uses a large-scale
Dust Release: Detachment of the Primitive World Technique
 which succeeds in obliterating the twenty-five clones and part of the real Madara, in one fell swoop. Splitting the cube down the middle,
Mei
 unleashes a
Water Release: Water Dragon Bullet Technique
 which
A
 charges with
lightning
. This makes contact with Madara effectively slowing down his response time. As Madara prepares to counter, it is revealed that
sand
 was also concealed in the dragon which
Gaara
 uses to bind Madara's movements further in order to create an opening for Ōnoki to use another
Dust Release
 thus giving time to seal him during the regeneration process. After they declared that this was the power of the five Kage, Madara compliments them stating that he would respond with his full power as well. He then unleashes the complete version of his
Susanoo
 stating that it would help them realise just how futile their efforts have been, regardless of being Kage.