"
The Past
" (
過去
,
Kako
) is episode 192 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Kawaki
 dreams back to his past. He recalls cutting wood for his
father
, but not making much money out of it because his village had been hit by a recession. His attention was drawn to a seller's goldfish. While he had no money, the seller informed him of a festival where he could see many goldfish for free. One of Kawaki's customers informs the goldfish seller of Kawaki's background, including how his drunk father beats him and uses all the money Kawaki makes on booze. Arriving home, Kawaki hands his father the booze he bought. The father is dismissive of Kawaki, and prevents him from getting dinner when he finds the pamphlet on the goldfish festival. Kawaki continues to cut wood and use the money to buy booze for his father. One day, physicians show up on his village and ask to draw his blood to see if he has a plague that has been going around the region.
 Kawaki runs away and bumps into two bigger kids, who make fun of him and his father. Kawaki defends his father, and the kids punch him to the ground. Before they can do more, the goldfish seller threatens them with a staff. The seller says he has a similar background, and offers to take Kawaki with him and teach his trade. He offers Kawaki a tissue to clean up his wound. Kawaki says he can't abandon his father, and rushes back home with a cracked bottle of booze.
Delta
 collects the discarded tissue with Kawaki's blood on it. He trips and the bottle breaks. At home, his father locks him up for breaking the bottle.
Jigen
 arrives at his house and offers money to buy Kawaki. His father agrees, and when Kawaki protests it, his father beats him with a bottle. Jigen gives the father his money and takes custody of Kawaki. Jigen takes Kawaki to the only tunnel leading away from his village. The goldfish seller appears, and revealing himself as a trafficker, wants Kawaki for himself over the trouble he went to get the boy to trust him. Jigen has Kawaki go outside the tunnel, and later emerges alone. Kawaki confesses he wanted a goldfish. He takes him to a
Kara
 headquarter and tells
Amado
 to treat him courteously. He says he'll give him a special present. Kawaki wakes up in the presence of
Naruto
,
Shikamaru
, and
Konohamaru
. Naruto tells him he's in a safe place.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Kawaki
Yuma Uchida
内田 雄馬
Uchida Yūma
Jigen
Kenjiro Tsuda
津田 健次郎
Tsuda Kenjirō
Amado
Akio Otsuka
大塚 明夫
Ōtsuka Akio
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Kokatsu
Kenji Nomura
乃村 健次
Nomura Kenji
Goldfish seller
Katsunori Okai
岡井 カツノリ
Okai Katsunori
Pottery worker
Kosuke Katayama
片山 公輔
Katayama Kōsuke
Liquor store owner
Kazuya Saji
佐治 和也
Saji Kazuya
Medical team
Hirokazu Sekido
関戸 博一
Sekido Hirokazu
Boy
Ryo Nishitani
西谷 亮
Nishitani Ryō