"
The Eighth Truth
" (
八つ目の真実
,
Yattsume no Shinjitsu
) is episode 281 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Boruto
 is incredulous that everything until now was
genjutsu
, and his legs give out, weak from disuse.
Yatsume
 and
Rokuro
 also wake up, Boruto confirming to Rokuro that
Kiseru
 wasn't working for
Ōga
, but in fact investigating him. Something about the pain when Kiseru stabbed him was different, which he attributes to it being genjutsu. Rokuro speculates that the people who died in the genjutsu can't wake up, and doesn't believe they can beat Ōga in an unfamiliar location. Yatsume retrieves a map and access card from the
Kusa
-nin who worked for Ōga, which they use to leave the area and search for an exit. Yatsume falls down, dizzy. Rokuro doesn't want her dragging them down, and asks for the map. She refuses, thinking he wants to escape by himself, and carries own. They continued through abandoned rooms, and Rokuro notices them walking on the same puddle they did earlier, realising they're going in circles. A wall comes down, separating Boruto from the other two. Yatsume refuses giving the map to Rokuro again. Boruto fails to break through the wall with his
Rasengan
 and tries to circle back.
 Yatsume prepares to attack with
Lightning Release
, Rokuro changes his arms into blades, and sends a
parasite
 at her. Boruto arrives to find Yatsume defeated, and she tells him Rokuro took the map. He finds a closed gate and uses the access card to go through, finding an Ōga
puppet
, which attacks him. Boruto helps Yatsume walk. She tells him she paralysed the insect with Lightning Release, but he'll be in danger when it wears off. They reach a more open area, and the parasite begins taking over Yatsume, causing her to attack Boruto, slashing his leg. She asks him to end it before she loses control. He allows her to stab his hand, and from how the pain feels, determines they're still under genjutsu, so they can still be saved. The infection on Yatsume recedes, and her attitude changes, commenting on what she wanted to see Boruto do. Her appearance changes to a cloaked, long-haired version of herself, revealing herself as Ōga, using the old puppet as a distraction. He accuses her of killing
Batta
, which she admits she did to cast doubt on Kiseru so she could continue with the experiments. She wants to understand people's true desires, devising the scenarios to force people to act on them. She learned that desire is connected to one's life-force from someone who wanted to live so much he would steal others' bodies, but he was defeated anyway. Boruto realises she's talking about
Jigen
, and she reveals herself as
Kara
's eighth Inner, created by
Amado
. Boruto recognises their location as the place he saw when Amado was being interrogated. Because Kiseru almost broke her genjutsu, she had to quickly make a new one. Since they're still under it, Boruto asks about everyone else. She shows Boruto everyone in suspended animation, saying that she's not a combat type person, only her brain being augmented by Amado so she could assist his research on the human heart when he hit a dead end. She had to flee when she attempted to examine Jigen's heart, but before she could, he destroyed an important part of her body. It destroyed something in her heart, she no longer understands the reason for living, and her body began to whither. She thought that if she saw everyone trying so desperately to stay alive, it would restore her desire to live. She finds his desire different from others', and thinks she might have succeeded if he didn't figure it out. He finds her actions unforgivable, and she sits down, tired from talking so much. She explains that stabbing her will release the genjutsu and he will wake up. Ōga also asks him to remove a scroll she indicates on the screen, so everyone else will wake up. She compares the situation to the fifth experiment. He deduces that if he leaves, she has no way of waking up, hence her request. Ōga thinks it's too late for her. Boruto thinks she can wake up and remove the scroll herself, and offers to find her a reason to live. The world around begins to collapse. He runs around, trying to escape, pulling her along, and
Boruto Streams
 himself carrying her through a gate. From the experiments, Ōga thinks that when desires collide, unhappiness follows, but Boruto says he doesn't live for desires, but for dreams, and tells her to find a dream that stirs her heart. The ground collapses under her, and Boruto makes a clone chain to reach her, but she has to reach back. Reaching for Boruto is enough to make her wake up in reality, where she struggles to move.
Sarada
 disagrees with the investigating team wanting to withdraw to think of another strategy, despite there being no contact from Kiseru. She says that if they leave, Kiseru won't be able to contact them.
Kawaki
 points out she's begging them to reconsider.
Mitsuki
 grabs one of the communication devices, and Boruto's voice comes through. He says he's somewhere in the mountains. Sarada yells at him. Boruto looks down at everyone who woke up, determine to continue living. Rokuro is still in
custody
, Kiseru finds his friend. Batta gives
Fugō
 a discount because his family is struggling.
Shamo
 finds Boruto, asks about Yatsume, and gives him a letter he found addressed to him. It's from Ōga, telling him she found a dream, and tries to have him guess it, promising to visit him one day. Boruto teases Shamo telling him it's a letter from Ōga, and refusing to show him.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Ōga (Yatsume)
Sara Matsumoto
松本 沙羅
Matsumoto Sara
Shamo
Aoi Inase
いなせ あおい
Inase Aoi
Kiseru
Katsunori Okai
岡井 カツノリ
Okai Katsunori
Namua
Shinya Hamazoe
浜添 伸也
Hamazoe Shin'ya
Rokuro
Atsushi Abe
阿部 敦
Abe Atsushi
Batta
Chihiro Ikki
一木 千洋
Ikki Chihiro
Fugō
Taira Kikumoto
菊本 平
Kikumoto Taira
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Kawaki
Yuma Uchida
内田 雄馬
Uchida Yūma
Konoha Anbu
Ryoko Shiraishi
Hidenori Takahashi
白石 涼子
高橋 英則
Shiraishi Ryōko
Takahashi Hidenori