"
The Steam Ninja Scrolls: Potato Chips and the Giant Boulder!
" (
湯煙忍法帖・ポテチと大岩!!
,
Yukemuri Ninpōchō: Potechi to Ōiwa!!
) is episode 109 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Shikamaru
 thinks back to playing shōgi with
Asuma
, back when he still didn't know who was the "king". He believes
Mirai
 will soon be old enough to realise the answer as well. Mirai,
Kakashi
,
Guy
, and
Tatsumi
 travel to their next stop, a supposedly lesser known hot spring. Conversation turns to parents, and Tatsumi asks Mirai which of her parents she is most like. They arrive at their destination, but there is a giant boulder in the middle of the village. An old lady explains it's been a month since the boulder fell from the mountain and crushed part of the village, including the hot spring. Guy ponders if he was twenty years younger, he'd have no problem removing the boulder. Some other villagers invite the group for drinking, where they explain they've done what they can clearing away mud and sand. They haven't had help from
Yugakure
 because they've been having issues with young women disappearing, which takes priority. They haven't asked the
Land of Fire
 for help because they think they wouldn't bother coming all the way, or that they'd send low ranking individuals with no real authority. Later, Mirai tries moving the boulder by herself, to no avail.
 The old lady is sorry she came all this way, and offers her a
Land of Hot Water
 dish, a roasted potato made in an underground pit. Kakashi talks with Mirai, pointing out the huge debris-related risk in moving the boulder. Mirai wonders if there's anything they can do, and Kakashi explains he's already taken steps, and called
Chōji
, who was on a mission nearby. Chōji arrives, but is quite hungry and out of potato chips. Mirai brings him the roasted potatoes, which Chōji quickly eats, but they don't have enough fat for him to recover his strength. Since they can't get potato chips in the mountain, Mirai decides to make some with Tatsumi's help. Chōji comments on potato chips all the way through their making, and makes a comment on advice Asuma used to give him, which sparks Mirai's curiosity. She asks about her father, and Chōji tells her he smoked a lot and was quite vague, but that he understands Asuma more now that he has more years on him. He tells them about how Asuma gave his team their earrings. While their talking, the potato chips become ready. Chōji is unsure about their shape, but raves on their flavour when he tries them. Chōji grows in size to remove the boulder, and is joined by the other Konoha shinobi and the villagers. Chōji converts calories to chakra for a final push, removing the boulder. The hot spring begins flowing again. Chōji slims down from having converted so many calories into chakra. The old lady thanks Mirai, who downplays her contributions. Chōji explains how Asuma used to encourage him when he had trouble learning jutsu. When he mentions the "king", Chōji explains it was something Asuma asked them, and refuses to tell her the answer, as asked by Shikamaru. He says watching Mirai brought back memories of Asuma. Chōji leaves, and at night, Tatsumi and Mirai soak in the hot springs. Hearing Mirai talking about her father, Tatsumi confesses she's been lying to them, and that she's actually been looking for a hot spring where one supposedly can talk to the dead.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Mirai Sarutobi
Eri Goda
合田 絵利
Gōda Eri
Kakashi Hatake
Kazuhiko Inoue
井上 和彦
Inoue Kazuhiko
Might Guy
Masashi Ebara
江原 正士
Ebara Masashi
Chōji Akimichi
Kentaro Ito
伊藤 健太郎
Itō Kentarō
Shikamaru Nara
Shotaro Morikubo
森久保 祥太郎
Morikubo Shōtarō
Asuma Sarutobi
Jurota Kosugi
小杉 十郎太
Kosugi Jūrōta
Tatsumi
Aya Suzaki
洲崎 綾
Suzaki Aya
Hot spring inn proprietress
Ako Mayama
真山 亜子
Mayama Ako
Villagers
Yasuhiko Kawazu
Ken Uo
Kazuya Saji
Hirokazu Sekido
川津 泰彦
魚 建
佐治 和也
関戸 博一
Kawazu Yasuhiko
Uo Ken
Saji Kazuya
Sekido Hirokazu