"
The Progenitor
" (
祖たるもの
,
Sotarumono
) is chapter 594 of the original
Naruto
 manga.

Summary

While analysing the situation before them, the shinobi are told by
Tobi
 to witness as the
Ten-Tails
 was revived and with it, the beginning of the world's demise. Confused that Tobi would be able to do this,
Kakashi
 notes that the war was all for the sake of preventing
Akatsuki
 from attaining
Gyūki
 and
Kurama
 and since his side still had the tailed beasts, wonders whether Tobi was lying. But recalling the fact that they had used a
clone
 made from its
chakra
 during the fight with
Taka
, Gyūki reminds
B
 and the others that Akatsuki may actually have its chakra. Kurama then notes that its chakra was also present in the
Benihisago
 and
Kohaku no Jōhei
 which the
Demonic Statue of the Outer Path
 had consumed and requests
Naruto
 to switch with it so it could explain to the others. As the fox explains the story behind the two
Treasured Tools of the Sage of Six Paths
, the
Gold and Silver Brothers
 and how they had come to attain its chakra, Kakashi corroborates Kurama's story with the intel received from headquarters. With this, Kakashi notes that he would like them to do something before the beast was revived, leading Tobi to retort that because Kakashi had always spoken so easily, it had led him to live a life full of regret.
Guy
 questions Tobi once again on who he was, but Tobi simply responds that it would make no sense to tell him because Guy didn't remember faces. Interjecting, Kurama tells them that as Kakashi said, now was the only time to do something about the situation as the
Sage of Six Paths
 had told them that the revival of the Ten-Tails signalled the end of the world. Answering Naruto's questioning of the Ten-Tails' power, Kurama tells him of the beast's might and the fact that amongst all the names it was known by it was also seen as the progenitor of all that existed in the world. The fox then goes on to state that though even it alone would stand no chance against the Ten-Tails, it may be possible since Tobi did not possess all of Gyūki and its own chakra. Tobi however rebuffs this stating that he only needed the beast to cast the
Infinite Tsukuyomi
 on the world. Switching back with Kurama, Naruto declares his dreams to Tobi, with Guy, Kakashi, and even B — who reveals his fetish for middle-aged women's breasts to those present (much to Gyūki's shock) — rally behind him. As Tobi launches into another speech, Naruto enters his
Nine-Tails Chakra Mode
 and attempts to land a high-speed
Rasengan
 attack on the statue, but Tobi blocks it with his
gunbai
 prompting Naruto to state that it seems as though he really would have to bash Tobi's mask in first. Tobi responds, noting that there was one thing he could not part with, and then declares that he would not let them touch the statue.