"
The Final Lesson!
" (
最後の授業…!!
,
Saigo no Jugyō…!!
) is episode 6 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Boruto
 finds
Shino
 to be odd.
Shikadai
 scolds Boruto, and apologises for whatever they did to get out of trouble. Still angry, Shino sicks his insects on them.
Mitsuki
 is impressed when the insects block his kunai with webs. Boruto sees the shadow spectre possessing Shino. Shino's insects begin devouring the surroundings. Shikadai tries to pin them with his shadow, but there are too many, and some begin overtaking Boruto and draining his chakra. Mitsuki blows them away with his
Wind Release
, and stretches his arms to retrieve Boruto. They flee using a smoke bomb to cover their escape. Hidden, the three discuss their options, Shikadai noting Shino's skill and
killing intent
.
 Boruto suggests getting help from another teacher, but Mitsuki points out the insects have spread throughout the forest, and will find them before they're able to leave. Shikadai asks Boruto about the shadow only he can see, getting Mitsuki's attention. At the
Academy
,
Iruka
 wonders about Shino, and
Anko
 tells him not to worry about him. Shino catches up with Boruto and Shikadai, who try using an exploding tag to deal with the insects, to no avail. Mitsuki watches from afar. As they escape again, Shikadai notices the insects avoid water when he runs through a stream. Mitsuki regroups with them, claiming to have gotten lost. He asks Boruto about other people who went berserk after being possessed by the shadow only he can see. Shikadai grows suspicious of Mitsuki. Mitsuki suggests they kill Shino, as he wants to do the same to them. Shikadai points out Shino's been unconcerned with using chakra, saying them can use that to their advantage, but it'll require someone being bait. Shikadai wants it to be Mitsuki since he doesn't trust him, and to expose other abilities he might have. Boruto wants to make up for driving Shino to snap in the first place, and argues that he can still create shadow clones despite having had his chakra drained earlier. Boruto tries to get to Shino with shadows clones, and makes use of the webs to place an exploding tag near him. Shino manages to avoid them all of his attacks, and immobilises Boruto and Shikadai. Shino tells them he realised their plan to get him on water to get rid of his insects, and notices Mitsuki in the distance. When Shikadai points out he's used most of his insects, and Mitsuki extends his arms underwater, dragging Shino down. Shino releases aquatic insects, and Mitsuki employs
Lightning Release
 to stop them, forcing the shadow spectre out of Shino. Mitsuki puts Shino on land, but begins drowning, having used too much chakra. Boruto dives after Mitsuki, but he begins drowning as well. Despite having depleted most of his chakra, Shino dives in after the two, and manages to get them out by summoning a giant insect. Later, Shino apologises for attacking them, and the students apologise for ridiculing him, acknowledging his strength. Shino reports the incident to
Naruto
, he and
Shikamaru
 both agree that the matter needs to be investigated, and ask Shino to help them.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Amanda Miller
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Robbie Daymond
Shikadai Nara
Kensho Ono
小野 賢章
Ono Kenshō
Todd Haberkorn
Shino Aburame
Shinji Kawada
川田 紳司
Kawada Shinji
Derek Stephen Prince
Iruka Umino
Toshihiko Seki
関 俊彦
Seki Toshihiko
Kyle McCarley
Anko Mitarashi
Takako Honda
本田 貴子
Honda Takako
Cherami Leigh
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Maile Flanagan
Shikamaru Nara
Shotaro Morikubo
森久保 祥太郎
Morikubo Shōtarō
Tom Gibis
Kurenai Sarutobi
Rumi Ochiai
落合 るみ
Ochiai Rumi
Mary Elizabeth McGlynn