This article is about the manga chapter. For the anime episode, see
The Chūnin Exams Begin!
.

"
The Chūnin Exams Begin!!
" (
中忍試験開始!!
,
Chūnin Shiken Kaishi!!
,
Viz:
 The Chunin Exam Begins!!) is chapter 3 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 manga.

Summary

Gaara
,
Kankurō
, and
Team Shinki
 are on their way to
Konoha
 by train for the
Chūnin Exams
.
Shinki
 is fully committed that all three will be victorious, and confident their adversaries will be no match for them. Gaara tells them to be well-rested. In his room,
Metal Lee
 trains.
Sasuke
 teaches
Boruto

shurikenjutsu
, and how deflecting his own shuriken can be used to hit targets. At home, Boruto recalls
Katasuke
's words about the
Kote
.
Shikamaru
 and
Sai
 administer the first exam, a true or false question about a book series. When both answers are shown to be incorrect, all teams fall into an ink pit. The teams who manage to keep themselves from falling into the ink pass.
 Shikamaru informs
Naruto
 that Boruto and his team passed, and advises him to congratulate Boruto. Naruto sends him an email, and Boruto scoffs at it. When Boruto is dissatisfied with Sasuke's assessment of his shurikenjutsu, he complains, saying that this is
Sarada
's specialty as an Uchiha. To counter it, Sasuke creates numerous shadow clones, Naruto's specialty. Boruto manages to create only four clones. In the second exam, teams have to protect their own flags while capturing the opposing team's. Teams Moegi, Yurui, and Shinki pass. Boruto stays back to protect their flag while Sarada and
Mitsuki
 go on. Boruto and his clones take on a triplet team from
Kiri
, but the triplets can also use shadow clones, out-numbering him. Mitsuki turns back to help Boruto. When the triplets are on the verge of getting their flag, Boruto recalls Naruto's congratulatory email, and resorts to using the Kote, using
Water Release
 and
Lightning Release
 to defeat the triplets. Sarada uses her
Sharingan
 to spot the real flag among
genjutsu
 ones, securing victory for their team.
Kōsuke
, one of Katasuke's subordinates, informs him Boruto used the Kote, and that it was video recorded.