This article is about the Blue Vortex chapter.  For other uses, see
Awakening (disambiguation)
.

"
The Awakening
" (
覚醒
,
Kakusei
) is chapter 4 of the
Boruto: Two Blue Vortex
 manga.

Summary

Code
 recalls
Boruto
's warnings about the
Claw Grime
, dismissing it as their only instinct is to devour others. The
toad
 on Boruto hurries him, who replies he's not as skilled as his
grandfather
.
Kawaki
 notices Boruto talking, but not the toad. Boruto teleports to Code's location with the
Flying Thunder God Technique
, surprising him. In the time it takes for Boruto to walk towards the pen, the
Ten-Tails
 has vanished. The toad planted on Code is puzzled, considering him incapable of taking such an action at the moment. Boruto notices a Claw Grime tree nearby, and
a Grime
 who Code mistakes for
Bug
 shows up. Boruto explains that what's in front of them is a
God Tree
. It attacks Boruto, referring to him as an
Ōtsutsuki
, asking if he came to offer himself to be devoured. Boruto repels it with
Lightning Release
, and it changes its arm into a mouth to eat him. Boruto teleports back to Code's side, who demands an explanation as he falls down. Boruto rescinds the effects of the
Rasengan: "Uzuhiko"
, telling him to prepare for an attack. He explains that everyone turned into a tree has become one such God Tree.

Another God Tree
 shows up, floating above them, explaining that thanks to Code's interference, they have developed self-awareness. Another God Tree,
resembling a harlequin
, shows up, berating Code for always ending up being used by someone else. The toad on Boruto advises him to retreat. Boruto notices another God Tree. Kawaki reports the specifics of the encounter with Code and Boruto to
Shikamaru
, such as that Boruto seemed to be chasing Code. Kawaki suspects that someone in the
Konoha Barrier Team
 is covertly aiding Boruto. Shikamaru dismisses the idea, as all those communications are monitored.
Sarada
 arrives, finding the idea ridiculous, stating that Boruto drove Code away, telling them to confirm it with
Ada
. Kawaki tells her that his motives don't matter, and that Boruto should be killed on account of being an Ōtsutsuki, which Sarada points out also applies to him. Kawaki reiterates that he's an Ōtsutsuki who kills other Ōtsutsuki, perfectly willing to die after the job is done. Sarada assures him she won't let him have his way with
Konoha
. Shikamaru tells them to stop, and asks about the trees. Sarada explains the victims are still alive, and from the conversation with Code, Boruto knows something about them. She clarifies that since Boruto and Code are hostile to each other, and Code is hostile to Konoha, they should ally with Boruto against him. Despite the toad's advise to retreat, Boruto prepares to fight, fending off an attack from a
Sasuke God Tree
. It and Boruto clash
Chidori
 and
Rasengan
. The Bug God Tree attacks, holding Boruto's
sword
 in place, and the harlequin one immobilises him with
Earth Release
. Boruto appeals to Code's self-preservation, as the God Tree's will kill him as well, but he abandons Boruto, pointing out they'll eat him without Code having to do anything, which works in his favour. Boruto escapes with the Flying Thunder God Technique. The flying God Tree considers Boruto lucky, as their nascent curiosity currently outweighs their devouring instinct, but is certain Boruto can't escape his fate. Boruto rests against a tree, and
Koji Kashin
 admonishes him for his rashness. Boruto apologises that
Sasuke
, stuck in the tree, will have to wait a bit longer.