"
The Genin Documentary
" (
下忍ドキュメンタリー!!
,
Genin Dokyumentarī!!
) is episode 48 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

One week after the
Byakuya Gang
 incident,
Naruto
 gives an interview where he commends the genin involved in the conflicts resolution, which frustrates
Iwabee
, who had been ordered to stay put. News of the upcoming
Chūnin Exams
 exasperate him, now concerned he'll be a genin repeater.
Shikamaru
 and Naruto discuss recent developments, and consider the shortage of genin applicants for the exams.
Udon
 comes by Naruto's office, where he lifts
Team 5
's suspension and gives them a mission. Iwabee discusses the exams with Lee and
Denki
, all determined not to be left behind. Team 7 receives a delivery mission as Team 5 arrives. Team 5 is to participate in a documentary, a PR attempt to increase the dwindling
Academy
 enrolments.
 As they begin filming, they all struggle with coming across naturally on camera. The director takes Udon aside and asks if there's another team he could film, and Udon informs him the Hokage personally picked that team. The director tells Udon he used to want to be a shinobi. He wants Team 5 to show him flashy ninjutsu, so Iwabee raises the ground, Lee attacks it, and then throws shuriken at Denki, who substitutes out of their way. The director is pleased with the eye-catching footage, but Udon points out they're scaring the civilians, and withdraws Team 5 from the mission. Later, Iwabee tries throwing his forehead protector in frustration, but is stopped by Lee. Udon asks if they want to be suspended again, and Iwabee questions how someone cool like Udon could possibly understand them. Udon shares how he failed to graduate several times, and how he messed up missions as a genin. Iwabee ponders about Udon's earlier words on looking cool on film. At night, determined not to let their efforts go to waste, the filming crew decides to detonate some explosive tags they had set up on a condemned building to get some shots. Not satisfied with the shots, they do inside, and the building starts to collapse on top of them. Lee saves them from falling debris, and Denki analyses the situation. When the roof collapses, Iwabee protects them from a falling crane, and Udon stops the debris with his snot-based jutsu. In the confusion, Iwabee loses his forehead protector, and the filming crew requests them to be the ones on the documentary again. Upon reporting to Naruto, he shares his past Academy day struggles with the team, and Iwabee is moved to tears when he learns Naruto knows who he is, and gets his forehead protector back, his teammates having found it. Team 7 watches the documentary.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Iwabee Yuino
Shinya Hamazoe
浜添 伸也
Hamazoe Shin'ya
Ray Chase
Denki Kaminarimon
Chihiro Ikki
一木 千洋
Ikki Chihiro
Erica Mendez
Metal Lee
Ryo Nishitani
西谷 亮
Nishitani Ryō
Billy Kametz
Udon Ise
Ikuji Nose
野瀬 育二
Nose Ikuji
Edward Bosco
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Amanda Celine Miller
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Cherami Leigh
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Robbie Daymond
Konohamaru Sarutobi
Hidenori Takahashi
高橋 英則
Takahashi Hidenori
Max Mittelman
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Maile Flanagan
Shikamaru Nara
Shotaro Morikubo
森久保 祥太郎
Morikubo Shōtarō
Tom Gibis
Suika Kannonji
Mariko Higashiuchi
東内 マリ子
Higashiuchi Mariko
Alex Cazares
Director
Hirokazu Sekido
関戸 博一
Sekido Hirokazu
Doug Erholtz
Announcer
Natsumi Yamada
山田 奈都美
Yamada Natsumi
Sarah Williams