"
The Power of That Name
" (
その名の力
,
Sono Na no Chikara
,
Viz:
 Power of a Name) is chapter 561 of the original
Naruto
 manga.

Summary

As the giant meteorite descends,
Ōnoki
 tells the Allied Shinobi not to give up before even trying. He flies towards the meteorite intending to
lighten
 it.
Gaara
 orders everyone to retreat, as he stays behind to help Ōnoki.
Kabuto
 speaking through
Mū
, surmises that Madara intends to destroy everything with the meteor, and Madara states that he is correct as they will simply regenerate. Ōnoki successfully lightens the meteorite, as Gaara catches it with his sand. Madara asks what they will do about the second one, as it collides it with the first. At the
Allied HQ
,
A
,
Tsunade
 and
Shikaku
 discuss why the
masked man
 would falsely claim that he is Madara. Tsunade says he used the name because the world would always fear the name. It got the world's attention and that it was enough to drag them into war. The shock from the second meteorite's impact reaches HQ. They receive intel about what happened, and they determine that it must be Madara's attack. Tsunade states that she will be heading to the front. Back at the battlefield there are barely any survivors left.
Dodai
 protected Naruto's clone due to him being a valuable asset. Ōnoki was severely injured by the attack. Madara and Mū regenerate, and speak about Madara's plans. They notice survivors and Madara attempts to summon the
Nine-Tails
, but fails due to it being sealed. Kabuto points out that the
jinchūriki
 is Naruto Uzumaki. Madara uses Hashirama's
Wood Release Secret Technique: Nativity of a World of Trees
 to attack the remaining Allied Forces. The Nine-Tails gives Naruto some of its chakra without any of its will, preferring to help Naruto over being controlled by Madara again. Naruto rushes towards the approaching forest and creates many shadow clones. The clones create multiple
Big Ball Rasengan
 and destroy the advancing forest. Naruto says that he used up all of the Nine-Tails chakra and that he feels like he could disappear at any moment. Ōnoki tells Naruto to rest while they finish the battle. He proclaims that it's finally time to pick himself off the ground and that there's no opponent more worthy than Madara Uchiha.