"
The Hardest Rock in the World
" (
世界で一番固い石
,
Sekai de Ichiban Katai Ishi
) is episode 71 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Mitsuki
 wakes up after dreaming of when
Log
 and
Orochimaru
 both tried to sway him to join either one of them, surprised he can dream. At the
Lightning Burger
, Mitsuki tells his friends about having his first dream while wondering what to eat.
Boruto
 is surprised he's never had a dream, and
Chōchō
 complains about him taking too much time to place an order. When Boruto asks him, he confesses he never felt like rebelling against his parent. They're joined by
Shikadai
 and
Inojin
, who has a chick on his shoulder. They explain it's from an egg that hatched the day before when they were fulfilling a mission in a poultry farm, and got attached to him. When
Sarada
 and Boruto explain it imprinted on him, Mitsuki mentally compares it to first seeing Boruto after deciding not to choose neither Log nor Orochimaru. Sarada reminds her team they have security duty for the
Five Kage Summit
. At the summit, due to the topic being the
Ōtsutsuki clan
, they also invited the previous
Kage
,
Kakashi
,
Mei
 and
A
.
Darui
 notices
Ōnoki
's absence, and
Kurotsuchi
 says he came with her, but gave her the slip. They surmise he's sightseeing. While keeping watch, Boruto is bored, and asks Mitsuki to tell him something interesting. Mitsuki instead asks him if he ever felt like his thoughts weren't his own.
 He wonders if his attachment to his friends is like the chick that imprinted on Inojin, like a
genjutsu
 they can't break. Boruto dismisses the concern, saying they're not chickens, and Mitsuki asks if he has any fun stories. Boruto tells them about a question his father gave him to solve the day before, about the hardest rock in the world. They notice some shinobi by their location, and Mitsuki goes to ask what is happening. Sarada tells Boruto he should be more mindful of Mitsuki's troubles, or he'll stop liking him. Boruto answers they're good friends, and that it'll never happen. Mitsuki informs them the shinobi are looking for Ōnoki, exciting Boruto, who is sure that as
Tsuchikage
, he's bound know how to answer the question. As they examine his drawing, Ōnoki passes by, taking it and commenting it doesn't look like him. Ōnoki knows who Boruto and Sarada are, but not Mitsuki. They tell him he needs to go back to the summit, but he doesn't want to attend a boring meeting. He mock threatens them with
Dust Release
, but throws his back. Boruto asks him about the hardest rock, and Ōnoki says he'll tell him if instead of taking him back to the summit, he shows him around the village. Boruto and Mitsuki agree to it. Sarada questions it, but Ōnoki tells her the summit would be boring. At the summit, they discuss the missing
Urashiki
, and Naruto says Sasuke has left to investigate. Kurotsuchi is exasperated by everyone's easygoing attitude. In the village, when a construct beam is about to fall a civilian, Ōnoki protects the civilian with his Dust Release, impressing the genin, but passes out from the effort. When he wakes up, he mistakes Boruto for someone called
Kozuchi
. When asked about it, he explains Kozuchi was his grandchild, who died at a young age. As promised, Ōnoki explains about the hardest rock, saying it's the unbreakable will of shinobi. When Boruto and Sarada begin bickering, Ōnoki asks Mitsuki about his will, who finds it complicated, and unsure. Ōnoki says if he keeps going at it, it must be truth. Boruto asks Ōnoki not to tell
Naruto
 he told him the answer, but Ōnoki reveals he asked Naruto the question, who just asked Boruto without actually knowing the answer. Ōnoki tells them to visit him if they ever go to the
Land of Earth
, and wants more dumplings before going back to the summit. After dropping Ōnoki, Boruto thinks it was a trick question, but Mitsuki found the answer satisfying. Arriving home, Mitsuki becomes alert when he notices someone has been there, and sees a letter for him, which he burns. The next day, two shinobi on guard duty at the village's gate are attacked with
Lightning Release
.

Trivia

Sarada claims Ōnoki is 100 years old. However, as he was 79 during the Fourth Shinobi World War, which happened 15 years prior, he'd actually be 94.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Shikadai Nara
Kensho Ono
小野 賢章
Ono Kenshō
Inojin Yamanaka
Atsushi Abe
阿部 敦
Abe Atsushi
Chōchō Akimichi
Ryoko Shiraishi
白石 涼子
Shiraishi Ryōko
Ōnoki
Tomomichi Nishimura
西村 知道
Nishimura Tomomichi
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Shikamaru Nara
Shotaro Morikubo
森久保 祥太郎
Morikubo Shōtarō
Gaara
Akira Ishida
石田 彰
Ishida Akira
Kurotsuchi
Hana Takeda
武田 華
Takeda Hana
Chōjūrō
Koki Miyata
宮田 幸季
Miyata Kōki
Darui
Ryota Takeuchi
竹内 良太
Takeuchi Ryōta
Kakashi Hatake
Kazuhiko Inoue
井上 和彦
Inoue Kazuhiko
A
Hideaki Tezuka
手塚 秀彰
Tezuka Hideaki
Mei Terumī
Yurika Hino
日野 由利加
Hino Yurika
Uō
Kazuki Ota
太田 一騎
Ōta Kazuki
Saō
Yo Tokinaga
時永 洋
Tokinaga Yō
Orochimaru
Kujira
くじら
Kujira