This article is about the episode. For the village, see
Konohagakure
.

"
The Village Hidden in the Leaves
" (
木ノ葉隠れの里
,
Konohagakure no Sato
) is episode 129 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Boruto
 lists the differences he can see in the village.
Sasuke
 recalls
Urashiki
's words about "harvesting the
fox
's chakra".
Karasuki
 startles Boruto, reporting having deviated from the temporal shift coordinates set by Urashiki. Questioned by Sasuke, Karasuki confirms that by being separated from them, Urashiki will arrive at the past a few days later. Karasuki also warns them about changing the future by interfering with the past. Sasuke and Boruto change into less conspicuous clothes. Boruto is surprised there is no
Lightning Burger
, and that
Ramen Ichiraku
 is a small establishment. They come across
Sakura
, and Sasuke has to stop Boruto from asking her where they could find
Naruto
. Sasuke stresses Karasuki's warning, despite Boruto's assertion that they have to meet Naruto eventually anyway. Sasuke wishes to watch Naruto from a distance when they find him. Boruto bumps into Naruto. Boruto lets a "dad" slip, but Naruto is distracted by
Jiraiya
, who's running away from a crowd who caught him peeping. He throws them off by giving Boruto his binoculars, but he and Naruto are caught and beaten up by
Tsunade
, and made to apologise.
 She asks Sasuke and Boruto who they are what they're doing in Konoha, and Sasuke claims they're travelling performs who use basic ninjutsu in their tricks. Tsunade explains they'll have to be watched, as a genin has recently deserted the village, requiring security to be increased. She tasks Naruto and Jiraiya to keep a watch on them. Jiraiya complains, but Boruto changes his mind by using
Sexy Technique
. When Tsunade leaves, Jiraiya just dumps the task on Naruto, who wanted to train. When the three come across Sakura again, Sasuke retreats, telling Boruto it's too risky, and that he'll maintain surveillance from a distance. Sakura recognises Boruto from earlier, and comments on how similar he and Boruto are, to their annoyance. She notices there's only one person Naruto is watching, causing him to dread punishment from Tsunade. Naruto takes Boruto home to keep an eye on him. They have dinner, and Boruto recognises some mannerisms Naruto kept in adulthood. When Boruto can't sleep, Naruto asks him about his family. Boruto talks to him about it, talking around the fact Naruto is his father.

Trivia

Sasuke's claim of he and Boruto being travelling performers stems from
his encounter
 with the
Lightning Group
, who, too, proclaimed themselves as travelling performers.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Sasuke Uchiha
Noriaki Sugiyama
杉山 紀彰
Sugiyama Noriaki
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Jiraiya
Hochu Otsuka
大塚 芳忠
Ōtsuka Hōchū
Sakura Haruno
Chie Nakamura
中村 千絵
Nakamura Chie
Tsunade
Masako Katsuki
勝生 真沙子
Katsuki Masako
Karasuki
Minoru Shiraishi
白石 稔
Shiraishi Minoru
Bathhouse employee
Hirokazu Sekido
関戸 博一
Sekido Hirokazu