"
The Jinchūriki of the Village of Konoha
" (
木ノ葉の里の人柱力
,
Konoha no Sato no Jinchūriki
) is chapter 567 of the original
Naruto
 manga.

Summary

At the
Mountains' Graveyard
,
Sasuke
 breaks out of the hideout while elsewhere, having escaped the
samurai
,
Jūgo
 and
Suigetsu
 discuss Sasuke and
Karin
, as well as Suigetsu's goal to collect swords as they head to one of Orochimaru's hideouts. On the battlefield,
Naruto
 warns
Guy
 and
Kakashi
 about
Tobi
's abilities. As the
Five-Tails
 attacks, Guy
frees
 Naruto from the coral before seeing the beast turn on Tobi who
chains
 and
suppresses
 the Five-Tails, who is dismayed at being controlled in that manner. The
Eight-Tails
 tries crushing Tobi, but he simply
slips through it
. Tobi returns
Han
 back to his Version 2 form. Guy and Kakashi speculate that Tobi doesn't have full control over the tailed beasts. The Eight and
Nine-Tails
 speak to each other telepathically about the treatment of the tailed beasts and the Nine-Tails says that as the second strongest beast, going by tails, the Eight-Tails should just finish the battle already, and feigns sleep. The Eight-Tails snaps back, saying that this belief about their powers being defined by the number of tails is exactly why
Shukaku
 hated the Nine-Tails so much. Guy and Kakashi charge at the jinchūriki, intending to figure out which of the
Six Paths of Pain
 techniques each one used, only to conclude that Tobi isn't making them use Six Paths techniques because they already have strategies against those. Tobi praises them for figuring that out, and proceeds to make
Rōshi
 and
Utakata
 transform completely into their
respective

beasts
. Naruto falls out of
Nine-Tails Chakra Mode
, and considers creating more shadow clones with the Nine-Tails' chakra as diversions.
B
 thinks that creating more clones would surely kill him, but the Eight-Tails points out that Naruto should already be on the brink of death, and thinks that the Nine-Tails has stopped taking Naruto's chakra for a while. The Six-Tails attacks Kakashi and Guy, who dodge. The Four-Tails tosses the Eight-Tails, and Naruto almost falls into its mouth, but resists being eaten by the Four-Tails, now back in Nine-Tails Chakra Mode, as the Nine-Tails opens one eye watching on.

Trivia

The jinchūriki teaming up as well as the outfits they each are wearing on the chapter's cover art, is featured in
Killer B
's dream within the
Infinite Tsukuyomi
 in the anime. Their outfits have also appeared as DLC in
some

video games
.