"
The Longest Moment
" (
長き瞬間の中で…
,
Nagaki Toki no Nakade…
) is episode 135 of the
Naruto: Shippūden
 anime.

Synopsis

As
Sasuke
 approaches the
Uchiha Hideout
,
Itachi
 sits on a chair waiting for him, reminiscing on
the last days of his clan
. After carrying Sasuke home as he had sprained his ankle, Itachi was told by his father
Fugaku
 to attend an
Uchiha clan
 meeting the next day, which Itachi chose not to attend due to his
Anbu
 priorities. The following day, he was approached by Uchiha clan members of the
Konoha Military Police Force
, who believed he was responsible for the murder of his best friend,
Shisui Uchiha
, who had also missed the meeting. Itachi fought the police officers, calling the Uchiha clan arrogant and pathetic, relenting only after hearing Sasuke's voice. Shortly after, as
his mother
 made him dinner, Itachi had
slaughtered
 the entire clan, sparing only Sasuke's life. As Sasuke had demanded why Itachi would do such a thing, Itachi had told him that he has butchered them all simply to test the limit of his power, and wanted Sasuke to grow powerful so that he may be a worthy opponent for him one day. Before he departed, Itachi reveals to Sasuke that the secret behind the
Mangekyō Sharingan
 is to kill your best friend, explaining that he did kill Shisui, and if Sasuke followed in his steps, he would be the third one in the clan to have activated the Mangekyō.

Itachi is awoken from his reverie as Sasuke enters the hideout. Itachi asks what Sasuke sees with his
Sharingan
, to which Sasuke replies that he sees Itachi dead. The two begin fighting as Sasuke attempts to strike with his
Chidori Sharp Spear
; Itachi uses his
Early Sacrifice
 technique to jump on Sasuke's shoulder, evading the attack, and spins Sasuke around before slamming him into a wall. As Sasuke hits the wall, he prepares his
Chidori
 and rushes towards Itachi. Just as Itachi expects Sasuke to thrust him with it, Sasuke disperses the
lighning chakra
 through his
Chidori Current
, and uses the opportunity to leap into the air and impales Itachi with his
sword
.

As Itachi falls on the ground below, he muses that Sasuke has grown strong and disintegrates into a flock of crows. Sasuke realises that Itachi has been using a
genjutsu
, but it turns out that the Sasuke that was fighting is also an illusion; the real Sasuke sneaks up from behind Itachi and runs his sword through him. As Itachi coughs up blood, Sasuke demands to know who else from the Uchiha clan survived. When Itachi further questions his demand, Sasuke reminds him that he was told he would be the third to awaken the Mangekyō Sharingan, meaning there was someone else out there other than Itachi who possessed it. Believing that this person aided Itachi take out the police force in the clan's massacre, Sasuke pushes the blade further through Itachi's torso as he demands to know who it is so that he may kill that person as well. Itachi responds that it is none other than
Madara Uchiha
, the
co-founder
 of
Konohagakure
; Sasuke recalls the
Nine-Tailed Fox

telling him
 that he reminded the
tailed beast
 of Madara from the elder days.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Sasuke Uchiha
Noriaki Sugiyama
杉山 紀彰
Sugiyama Noriaki
Yuri Lowenthal
Itachi Uchiha
Hideo Ishikawa
石川 英郎
Ishikawa Hideo
Crispin Freeman
Fugaku Uchiha
Kenji Hamada
浜田 賢二
Hamada Kenji
Doug Stone
Mikoto Uchiha
Emi Sagara
さがら えみ
Sagara Emi
Kari Wahlgren
Yashiro Uchiha
Takashi Nagasako
長嶝 高士
Nagasako Takashi
Troy Baker
Inabi Uchiha
Yoshimitsu Shimoyama
下山 吉光
Shimoyama Yoshimitsu
Roger Craig Smith
Tekka Uchiha
Kimiyoshi Kibe
岐部 公好
Kibe Kimiyoshi
Grant George