"
The Bridge to Peace
" (
平和への懸け橋
,
Heiwa e no Kakehashi
) is episode 253 of the
Naruto: Shippūden
 anime.

Synopsis

Konan
 traps
Tobi
 in the chasm created by her
Paper Person of God Technique
, remarking that she studied his abilities the entire time they were comrades and that his
Kamui
 ability only works for five minutes, hence why the
explosive tags
 on her sheets of paper are set to detonate for ten straight minutes. However, Tobi is revealed to have a
Sharingan
 eye in his left eye socket and uses
Izanagi
 to materialise behind Konan, who believes she has killed him. As he stabs her through the back with a metal rod, she asks who he is and how he could have survived. As a favour to her since she helped with the
Eye of the Moon Plan
 during her tenure with the
Akatsuki
, he reveals the true nature behind Izanagi, likening it to the
Sage of Six Paths
'
Creation of All Things Technique
 and reaffirms that he is the one and only
Madara Uchiha
, the self-proclaimed second Sage of Six Paths.

Konan pulls herself off the rod and hobbles away, before noticing that the rain has stopped. Tobi wonders how the perpetual rainfall of
Amegakure
 could end so abruptly, while Konan, seeing a rainbow and remembering how
Yahiko
 told her how he hated the rain as it made it seem like the village is crying, declares to Tobi that
Nagato
 and Yahiko are giving her strength and that
Naruto
 is the true bridge to peace. She forms and fires a
Paper Chakram
 towards Tobi, who is fighting with only one eye and an arm left. Nonetheless, Tobi is able to surpass her defences and chokes her, placing her within a
genjutsu
 to find out Nagato's whereabouts as she passes away from her wounds.

Tobi makes his way to
Nagato and Yahiko's Shrine
, where he remarks that Nagato performed admirably well with the
Rinnegan
, declaring him to be the third Sage of Six Paths. As he notices Nagato's white hair, Tobi muses how much he must have strained himself to lose his red hair, the trademark of the
Uzumaki clan
 from whom he is descended. Tobi then uses Kamui to transport himself and Nagato to
Kamui's Dimension
. Meanwhile, a sheet of paper on Konan's body, which is floating on the water, is soaked red with her blood and begins to drift away.

In the past,
Jiraiya
 had enforced a
Water on a Frog's Face Training
, which utilised a "hop-in" card system which the
Ame Orphans
 would use whenever they left their
hideout
. Whenever one member was out of the hideout they were to turn the card onto the side with the frog so that the others would be aware that they were not there, and while they were in the hideout, the card should be on the red side. If one of them was gone but that person's card was still red, it would signify that he or she had been captured and something was wrong and if it should happen that a plank is turned on to the white side yet the person is in the hideout it could mean that an enemy has transformed into said person and has infiltrated the hideout. Jiraiya explained that this was done as a precaution because Amegakure was still war torn and politically unstable. Konan's memories with Nagato and Yahiko are shown, including the formation of the Akatsuki and her first kiss with Yahiko, and how the three orphans were forced to flee their hideout, albeit promising to one day return along with Jiraiya. The blood-red sheet of paper floats all the way to the hideout, where it places itself on Konan's card, signifying that the four have been reunited at last in the afterlife.

Discarding his torn Akatsuki robe and damaged mask, Tobi dresses himself in a new robe, with the
Uchiha clan
 crest on the back, along with a mask depicting the three tomoe design of the Sharingan, although with two eye holes this time.
Kabuto
 notices Tobi's new eye, while
Zetsu
 notifies him that a scroll from
Kisame
 has arrived, depicting the location of the
Nine-Tails
. Tobi then alerts the two that they are setting off to capture him immediately.

Trivia

In Konan's flashback during this episode,
Jiraiya
 uses the
Rasengan
 against the three
Ame Orphans
. However, Jiraiya was taught the Rasengan by
Minato
, who spent three years developing it. This gives Minato a narrow window to have developed and teach Jiraiya the Rasengan as he would have had to do so by the time he was only 15 or 16 as Minato is four years older than the Ame Orphans and Jiraiya spent three years training the Ame Orphans.

In some scenes, especially when Tobi grabs Konan by the throat, her Akatsuki ring does not appear on her finger.

The Akatsuki rings appear to no longer serve a purpose, given that the new attire Tobi chooses to replace his damaged outfit lacks his thumb ring.

In the manga, when Obito attempted to use Kamui to escape, his left hand covered his right eye, and thus his Mangekyō Sharingan. In the anime, his left hand did cover his face but his fingers did not cover his right eye and his, which had his regular Sharingan active. This was most likely because it was not yet revealed Obito's technique is the same Kamui Kakashi used.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Konan
Atsuko Tanaka
田中 敦子
Tanaka Atsuko
Dorothy Elias-Fahn
Yahiko
Kenyu Horiuchi
堀内 賢雄
Horiuchi Ken'yū
Matthew Mercer
Nagato
Junpei Morita
森田 順平
Morita Junpei
Vic Mignogna
Jiraiya
Hochu Otsuka
大塚 芳忠
Ōtsuka Hōchū
David Lodge
Nagato (boy)
Tomoaki Maeno
前野 智昭
Maeno Tomoaki
Vic Mignogna
Yahiko (boy)
Wataru Hatano
羽多野 渉
Hatano Wataru
Matthew Mercer
Konan (girl)
Kaori Mine
峯 香織
Mine Kaori
Dorothy Elias-Fahn
Madara Uchiha
Naoya Uchida
内田 直哉
Uchida Naoya
Neil Kaplan
Kabuto Yakushi
Nobutoshi Kanna
神奈 延年
Kanna Nobutoshi
Henry Dittman
Zetsu
Nobuo Tobita
飛田 展男
Tobita Nobuo
Travis Willingham
Hanzō of the Salamander
Ikuya Sawaki
沢木 郁也
Sawaki Ikuya
Richard Epcar
Rock Lee
Yoichi Masukawa
増川 洋一
Masukawa Yōichi
Brian Donovan
Neji Hyūga
Koichi Tochika
遠近 孝一
Tōchika Kōichi
Steve Staley