"
The Blood of the Funato
" (
舟戸の血
,
Funato no Chi
) is episode 250 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Ikada
 keeps
Seiren
 company, who's still unconscious, changing her IV drip.
Kobuna
 arrives, bringing Seiren many seashells. Ikada finds them beautiful, thinking it must have taken time to gather them. Kobuna boasts being able stay underwater for three minutes, and asks about Ikada's ship drawing, which he claims is nothing important. Ikada orders a guard to keep watch when Kobuna takes him outside, showing off his progress with the
blowpipe
. Kobuna confesses his mother asked him to check on Ikada, get him out from time to time. He says that with it, he can fight
Kirigakure
, and that his father would teach him to fight after returning from his mission. They watch everyone who lives with them working on the ships and training, each one pulling their weight. Kobuna asks if Ikada won't fight, and he says he's not good at it. Kobuna thinks he just has to train like him, but Ikada points out his lack of gills, unlike his siblings. Kobuna finds him amazing nonetheless, and Ikada mentions someone else saying the same.
Araumi
 and
Isari
 arrive, Araumi complaining about how much time Ikada spends taking care of Seiren, which won't change anything for him. Ikada pulls away, telling his father not to decide what he needs to do.
 He goes to help the women repairing the ships. One asks about Seiren, another whose husband was killed by Kirigakure asks if Ikada will fight.
Jibiki
 reports the clan's unfavourable situation to Araumi, believing it's only a matter of time before Kirigakure discovers where they are. Repairs to the mobile fortress are also delayed over lack of materials. Araumi yells to just steal it, but Isari counters they don't have the manpower, being spread thin on every front. Araumi asks about
Funamushi
, who Jibiki confirms should have received the order to cancel the ambush. Isari wants to retreat so they can regroup to launch another attack. Araumi is appalled that Isari would abandon avenging their men killed by Kirigakure, and Isari counters that they also have to protect those who are left. Araumi accuses Isari of becoming a coward during his imprisonment, Isari telling him he has no idea of what he and his siblings endured to rebuild the clan. Araumi asks about Ikada, and Isari still questions why Araumi expects so much from him. Araumi blames Isari for the loss of half their ships,
Tenma
's death, and Seiren's condition. Enraged, Isari transforms his
harpoon
, which Araumi reminds him was given to him by Araumi, so it won't defy his commands. Still angry, Isari leaves. Araumi swims to the seabed, and drops a pearl at a frozen woman,
Minamo
. He thinks back to a fight when Ikada was a newborn, feeling uncomfortable with him being on the battlefield, though Minamo remained unconcerned, believing he'd grow into a wonderful leader. Kirigakure launched freezing attacks, which hit Minamo. Araumi chastised her for protecting Ikada, but she made him promise her he'd raise Ikada well before being completely frozen and sinking. Back on land, Araumi is notified of Funamushi's death. He demands explanations from
Gokai
, who explains they couldn't back down from avenging Seiren, managing to kill
Kagura
, but failing to kill a
Konoha
 shinobi, who Ikada understands to be
Boruto
. Kobuna and his mother arrive, and break down crying. Kobuna wants to know who was responsible, and Ikada tells him it's not his job to avenge him, that's for the adults to do. Araumi chastises him, asking when he'll want to avenge his family, and grows more furious when Ikada says he doesn't even remember his mother. Araumi says his mother will never be able to rest in peace if Ikada doesn't avenge her, Ikada saying he never wanted to be chosen. Ikada grows angrier as Araumi throws him around, Isari noticing a glass of water shaking. Ikada leaves, and Isari goes to check on him. Neither understand why Araumi places his hopes on Ikada, and Isari explains his indecisiveness causes them harm. He explains that Seiren would have gone straight to the ambush, but stopped to get Ikada because she believed his power was essential. Isari thinks Ikada is holding out hope that Seiren will get better so he has an excuse not to fight. A guard informs Ikada that Seiren called out for him. He rushes to see her, but her memories are hazy. She tries getting out of bed, dropping Kobuna's seashells on the floor and stepping one of them before falling down. She starts to bleed, telling Ikada that their future is bright, and to reclaim their seas. Ikada lies to her, claiming the ambush was successfully carried out by their father and himself, and that Kirigakure has been wiped out. She dies in peace. Kobuna has Gokai give him the same tattoo as his father's, and asks to take him to the ones who killed Funamushi. Isari talks to Jibiki, believing Araumi to be too consumed by hatred to make sound decisions. He wishes to make peace with Kirigakure, intending to take advantage of still having control over the seas, and certain that they also want to avoid an all-out war. Araumi has no idea, and he wishes to broach the subject with Kirigakure in secret. At dawn, Ikada rips his ship design paper and dives into the ocean. The waves stop as his power awakens, and waters raise him, now bearing gills. Araumi celebrates. Ikada dons a new outfit, with a harsh look in his eyes.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Ikada Funato
Yusuke Shirai
白井 悠介
Shirai Yūsuke
Araumi Funato
Shigeru Chiba
千葉 繁
Chiba Shigeru
Seiren Funato
Megumi Han
潘 めぐみ
Han Megumi
Isari Funato
Yoshihisa Kawahara
川原 慶久
Kawahara Yoshihisa
Jibiki
Toshinari Fukamachi
深町 寿成
Fukamachi Toshinari
Kobuna
Asami Tano
田野 アサミ
Tano Asami
Gokai
Taito Ban
坂 泰斗
Ban Taito
Minamo Funato
Shoko Yuzuki
柚木 尚子
Yuzuki Shōko
Kobuna's mother
Natsumi Yamada
山田 奈都美
Yamada Natsumi
Funato clan
Juri Nagatsuma
Kumi Takaragi
Katsunori Okai
Kosuke Katayama
長妻 樹里
宝木 久美
岡井 カツノリ
片山 公輔
Nagatsuma Juri
Takaragi Kumi
Okai Katsunori
Katayama Kōsuke