"
The Mobile Fortress
" (
移動要塞
,
Idō Yōsai
) is episode 237 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Buntan
 takes their discovery as confirmation of the rumours she'd heard about the
Funato
.
Boruto
 wants to inform
Kagura
, certain the fortress should have a way to make contact.
Iwabee
 informs the others there are no ships pursuing them and the freed hostages.
Sarada
 radios Kagura of their rescue of the hostages, telling him they should arrive at the rendezvous as planned. He in turn reveals the existence of the mobile fortress, and that he sent Boruto and two others to investigate. Boruto manages to contact Kagura, and they update each other. He reveals the fortress is moving toward the rendezvous point, and that if Sarada's ship is spotted, it'll be obliterated by the fortress'
scientific ninja tool
. They're finding difficult to do much with so many Funato aboard. The Funato boat they came across earlier catches up with Kagura's boat, ramming through it. Boruto decides they have to destroy the fortress's weapon themselves. Kagura wants to use
Taiki
's damaged boat as a distraction to help Boruto.
 Taiki's boat collides with the fortress, and the Funato are ordered to check on it, giving Boruto and the others a chance to get closer to the weapon. They're spotted by two guards. Buntan takes one out with a
Lightning Ball
, but the other escapes to call reinforcements. They wonder how to destroy such a big weapon, and
Kawaki
 suggests destroying the door to buy themselves time. Kagura arrives with
Hebiichigo
 and
Kyohō
, having defeated the remaining guard, Hebiichigo sewing the door shut behind them. Buntan thought Kagura would only order them around instead of taking part of the action. Kagura informs them they've lost Taiki's boat, and can no longer contact Sarada and
Mitsuki
. Before they can decide on how to attack the weapon,
Tenma
 arrives, and is disappoint to see only children. Hebiichigo attacks, but Tenma
summons
 a
fiddler crab pincer
 and counterattacks. The sight of Hebiichigo's blood triggers Kyohō into a rage, and he begins pressuring Tenma. His attacks with
Kabutowari
 destabilise the fortress' structure, drawing Boruto's attention to a way they can get on top of the weapon. Kyohō also attacks Boruto and Kawaki, Buntan warning them of Kyohō's rage. Tenma uses the opportunity to attack them as well. Kagura knocks Kyohō out and takes up the fight with Tenma, Hebiichigo looking after Kyohō. Tenma is notified of a ship that contacted them from
Dotō Island
, and figuring it's Boruto's allies, orders to get on firing range. Kagura fights Tenma, and protects Buntan when Tenma shifts his focus to her. Kawaki joins Kagura against Tenma. Boruto reaches the chakra cannon, just as it takes aim at the ship and begins charging up. Iwabee spots the fortress aiming at them in time for
Denki
 to change course and dodge the shot. Tenma is informed they missed, and orders to fire it again. Buntan holds off the guards while Boruto uses a maintenance crane to drag the cannon around as it fires, damaging the fortress. Kawaki and Kagura hold Tenma down and prevent him from stopping the shot in time. The fortress begins to collapse, so Boruto, Kagura, and the others escape. Tenma vows to kill them. At the ship,
Team 5
, Sarada, and Mitsuki are relieved. They all join up at the ship and thank each other. Team 5 is surprised by the presence of the swordsmen. who celebrate reduced sentences with the mission's success. Kagura wants everyone back home safely, so he orders Taiki to take them back to
Kirigakure
 first.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Kawaki
Yuma Uchida
内田 雄馬
Uchida Yūma
Denki Kaminarimon
Chihiro Ikki
一木 千洋
Ikki Chihiro
Iwabee Yuino
Shinya Hamazoe
浜添 伸也
Hamazoe Shin'ya
Metal Lee
Ryo Nishitani
西谷 亮
Nishitani Ryō
Kagura Karatachi
Keisuke Komoto
河本 啓佑
Kōmoto Keisuke
Buntan Kurosuki
Mariya Ise
伊瀬 茉莉也
Ise Mariya
Hebiichigo
Nao Toyama
東山 奈央
Tōyama Nao
Kyohō Fuefuki
Yasuhiro Mamiya
間宮 康弘
Mamiya Yasuhiro
Captain Taiki
Kiyoyuki Yanada
梁田 清之
Yanada Kiyoyuki
Tenma Funato
Tomohiro Tsuboi
坪井 智浩
Tsuboi Tomohiro
Funato soldier gunner
Katsunori Okai
岡井 カツノリ
Okai Katsunori
Funato soldiers
Kosuke Katayama
Hirokazu Sekido
Kazuya Saji
片山 公輔
関戸 博一
佐治 和也
Katayama Kōsuke
Sekido Hirokazu
Saji Kazuya