This article is about the chapter. For the episode, see
The Secret of the Space–Time Ninjutsu
.

"
The Secret of the Space–Time Ninjutsu
" (
時空間忍術の秘密
,
Jikūkan Ninjutsu no Himitsu
,
Viz:
 The Secret of Teleportation Ninjutsu) is chapter 597 of the original
Naruto
 manga.

Summary

Urging
Kakashi
 to explain it in the simplest way possible so that they could readjust their strategy,
Guy
 and the others listen on as Kakashi explains that
Tobi
's ability to become intangible and absorb things were one and the same. He then explains that when he makes himself intangible, what Tobi actually does is to warp away the part of his body that was being attacked to the
other dimension
; so while it existed there, all attacks would simply phase through his body. However, since
Kamui
 shares the same dimension, the
lightning
-enhanced
kunai
 that Kakashi warped away, passed through the "intangible" part of Tobi's body and ended up in the other dimension and scratched the part of his body that was sent there in order to make him appear intangible. When questioned by
B
 how it was possible that their two techniques were linked to the same dimension, a hesitant Guy began to question Kakashi, but the latter cuts across him to ask Tobi directly where he got the
Sharingan
 from. Responding, he told them that he got it during the
previous war
 at the
Kannabi Bridge
 at a time when Kakashi was being recognised as the "Hero of the Sharingan" (
写輪眼の英雄
,
Sharingan no Eiyū
,
literally meaning:
 Hero of the Copy Wheel Eye). With the Copy Ninja at a loss for words, Tobi takes the opportunity to chastise him and perpetrate his
Eye of the Moon Plan
 as the right move for humanity, but his views are still rejected by Naruto who tells him that he would not give up his dreams. Taking the opportunity to chastise his beliefs as well, Tobi questions Naruto on how he would feel when he failed
Jiraiya
 and
Minato
. Telling its
jinchūriki
 to switch with it, however,
Kurama
 speaks directly to Tobi telling him that it was entrusted to Naruto, who had befriended him, for the exact reason of defeating Tobi. Spurring the young man onwards, Naruto enters his
Tailed Beast Mode
 and charges towards the masked man.