"
The Outcast
" (
ノケモノ
,
Nokemono
) is episode 209 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

In
Konoha
,
Kawaki
 wakes up from a nightmare where
Jigen
 attacked the village and killed everyone.
Himawari
 asks
Boruto
 where Kawaki is, as he's not home. Boruto finds him on the roof by himself. Kawaki asks about
Konohamaru
. Boruto tells him he'll be in the hospital a while longer, and not blame himself for it. Kawaki remains pensive during breakfast.
Hinata
 can't find ham she had bought. Boruto invites Kawaki to go train with him and
Mitsuki
, but Kawaki finds it dangerous to train with him, as their
Kāma
 are resonating and further changing their bodies. He writes a note to
Naruto
. Himawari gets food while Hinata vacuums the house and leaves. Kawaki notices and asks why she's sneaking out. She explains she's been feeding a wolf she calls
Jaggy
 for the past week. Kawaki notices the wolf has several scars on him. While he snarls at Kawaki, he's friendly with Himawari. He thinks the wold should get his own food, but Himawari convinces him to help her get food. They speculate on why Jaggy is the way he is. Kawaki relates to the wolf. When they return, other wolves are snarling at Jaggy, but leave as they approach. They return home, and Kawaki throws the note he wrote away.
 The next day, Kawaki and Himawari leave together again, and he helps her get food for Jaggy. Boruto and Mitsuki help Hinata on the garden, and they discuss Kawaki. Hinata calls for Boruto. Jaggy isn't in his cave, and Kawaki finds bear tracks near it. Himawari finds Jaggy dead, and Kawaki comforts her. She thinks that if he had been with his pack he could have survived, but Kawaki instead points that his white fur makes him stand out to other predators, and that by being alone, he protected his pack from danger. They bury Jaggy, and Kawaki tells her he has to do something alone. He goes to the village gates, but Boruto finds him there, having read the note Hinata found while cleaning. Kawaki wants to leave because he feels responsible for Jigen getting to the village through him. Boruto reminds him that they promised to defeat Jigen together, and Kawaki blames him and his family for dulling his instincts.
Shikamaru
 shows up, knowing where Kawaki is because of his surveillance. He
stops
 him from leaving the village. Despite arguing against having Kawaki on the village, Shikamaru will keep Kawaki in the village because that's what Naruto decided, and that like it or not, he's already a member of the village. Kawaki returns to find Himawari still on Jaggy's grave, and they decide to visit once in a while so he's not alone.

Trivia

This episode was originally scheduled to air on July 25, 2021, but was postponed due to the
2020 Summer Olympics
.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Kawaki
Yuma Uchida
内田 雄馬
Uchida Yūma
Himawari Uzumaki
Saori Hayami
早見 沙織
Hayami Saori
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Hinata Uzumaki
Nana Mizuki
水樹 奈々
Mizuki Nana
Shikamaru Nara
Shotaro Morikubo
森久保 祥太郎
Morikubo Shōtarō
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Bakery landlady
Juri Nagatsuma
長妻 樹里
Nagatsuma Juri