"
The Steam Ninja Scrolls: Mirai's King!
" (
湯煙忍法帖・ミライの玉!!
,
Yukemuri Ninpōchō: Mirai no Gyoku!!
) is episode 111 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Mirai
 recalls reading
Shikamaru
's report on the mission her father died, which detailed how
Hidan
 used
Asuma
's blood for his
jujutsu
, forging a link through which he transferred injuries.
Ryūki
 asks the women if they heard the voice of their loved ones calling out to them, and gives them water to purify themselves, instructing them not to drink until he tells them so. Mirai wants her father to teach her how to play shōgi, and expresses concern her father won't recognise her. Ryūki claims to be able to move between worlds, and having met Asuma, who wants to meet her. Mirai makes a mention to a shōgi player her father supposedly admired, and who she's supposed to be named after. Ryūki confirms Asuma telling him that, which Mirai takes as proof of his lies, as there's no such shōgi player, and prepares to fight him. Ryūki orders the women to drink the water, but Mirai slightly shocks them with
Lightning Release
, which snaps them out of the effects of the hypnotic gases in the spring. Mirai concludes he's the one behind the missing women, and he confirms they're sacrifices so he can achieve immortality. Ryūki cuts
Tatsumi
's cheek for some of her blood, and creates a link between her and a puppet, which puts her under his control. He orders Tatsumi to kill Mirai, and mocks Mirai for not fighting back against a non-shinobi opponent.

Kakashi
 and
Guy
 arrive at the spring, defeating other cultists as they do. Kakashi throws a kunai at Ryūki's hand, causing him to drop the cursed puppet, breaking his hold over Tatsumi. Ryūki creates a diversion with the gases to escape, but Mirai follows him. She reaches a ritual room where Ryūki intends to exchange blood from human sacrifices for immortality. The room contains several spear throwing trap mechanisms. Mirai asks Ryūki who Hidan is to him. Ryūki considers Hidan a hero and wants to inherit his accomplishments, restoring the Way of
Jashin
. He considers the currently peaceful era to be a waste, which mirrors Mirai's concerns that the challenges they face won't allow them to surpass the previous generation. Ryūki seemingly slashes Mirai, acquiring her blood, and
controlling her
. Damaging the puppet, Ryūki appears to use her blood to acquire immortality, but everything fades as Mirai reveals her
genjutsu
. Ryūki is confused as he tasted her blood, but Mirai reveals it was just the iron-rich water from hot springs. Ryūki is convinced what he sees now is a genjutsu, and charges at her. Guy and Kakashi watch as Mirai strikes back at him, seeing Asuma in her as she
defeats
 Ryūki. He and his cultists are apprehended, and Mirai explains what happened to Tatsumi. They talk about having memories of their loved ones and looking to the future. Kakashi and Guy exchange words and discuss Mirai's growth. They part ways with Tatsumi and go back to
Konohagakure
. Mirai is sceptical that they came across such an operation by accident, and they explain their mission was to investigate the missing girls, while Mirai's was to protect them,
Kiba
,
Chōji
, and
Tenten
 having been sent to gather intel while acting as tourists. As they arrive, Mirai realises they've been giving her all the details so she can write the mission report.
Boruto
 greets her as she arrives, and is shocked when she tells him what happened. Later, Mirai plays shōgi with Shikamaru, and says she figured out the "king" is the future generations. Shikamaru teases her for not realising she's named after the answer, and points out she lost the match.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Mirai Sarutobi
Eri Goda
合田 絵利
Gōda Eri
Tatsumi
Aya Suzaki
洲崎 綾
Suzaki Aya
Kakashi Hatake
Kazuhiko Inoue
井上 和彦
Inoue Kazuhiko
Might Guy
Masashi Ebara
江原 正士
Ebara Masashi
Ryūki
Tomokazu Sugita
杉田 智和
Sugita Tomokazu
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Shikamaru Nara
Shotaro Morikubo
森久保 祥太郎
Morikubo Shōtarō
Jashinism cultists
Katsunori Okai
Ryo Nishitani
岡井 カツノリ
西谷 亮
Okai Katsunori
Nishitani Ryō
Young women
Kumi Takaragi
Aoi Inase
Sara Matsumoto
Natsumi Yamada
宝木 久美
いなせ あおい
松本 沙羅
山田 奈都美
Takaragi Kumi
Inase Aoi
Matsumoto Sara
Yamada Natsumi