"
The Power to See the Future
" (
未来を読むチカラ
,
Mirai o Yomu Chikara
) is episode 134 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Boruto
 and
Naruto
 continue attacking
Urashiki
 in vain.
Sakura
 watches them from afar.
Sasuke
 tries to buy them some time, and tells Boruto to run away with Naruto.
Jiraiya
 summons a
toad
 and flees, grabbing Naruto and Boruto. Sasuke grabs Urashiki, and jumps down a cliff into a river, still holding Urashiki. Naruto tends to Jiraiya's injury, while Boruto is tied to a tree, and wishes to go back and save Sasuke. Urashiki gets out of the river angry at Sasuke's interference, and grabbing his sword, decides to go after him. Sakura finds an unconscious Sasuke by the river and moves him. Jiraiya, Naruto, and Boruto discuss Urashiki's claim of being able to see the future. Boruto wants to go save Sasuke, but Jiraiya stresses they must figure out Urashiki's jutsu first. Boruto notices Jiraiya's stab wound and realises something. He wants to test out a theory. Urashiki finds Sakura and Sasuke's trail. Sakura tends to Sasuke, and when Urashiki arrives at their general vicinity, without having found them, tells her he'll spare her if she hands Sasuke over. Boruto and Naruto arrive. They attack with
explosive tag
 kunai, and
wired kunai
 to bind to a tree, but he just vanishes out of them. Urashiki counters Boruto's attack from a blindspot, and gets some of his blood on him.
 He attacks Jiraiya, who's hidden behind a tree. Jiraiya counters with a
Fire Release
. Urashiki flies above it. Jiraiya attacks with
toad oil
, Urashiki simply vanishing through the attacks. Jiraiya and Boruto notice the bloodstains on Urashiki drying as he does. Jiraiya creates an
earth wall
 to allow them to escape. Urashiki pursues them. Boruto and Jiraiya discuss how the blood on Urashiki dried quicker than theirs. They consider the ways the blood could have dried faster, and Jiraiya concludes that Urashiki isn't seeing the future, but rather turning back time for himself, the extra time he experiences accounting for the quicker drying blood. Urashiki finds them with his
Byakugan
 and attacks. He boasts how his jutsu allows him to
experience the same moment many times and pick the best course of action
. Jiraiya
gets them all inside a toad's stomach
, having deduced Urashiki can't turn back time more than a few seconds. Naruto and Boruto create shadow clones, many of which attack Urashiki, causing him to keep using his ability to avoid their attacks. Urashiki walks towards them, but suddenly coughs blood. Jiraiya reminds him they're in a toad’s stomach, in a highly acidic environment. While he kept turning back time, Urashiki exposed himself to the acid vapours for much longer, which took its toll on him. Jiraiya takes them out of the toad, and Boruto
accelerates
 Naruto, who lands a
Rasengan
 on Urashiki.
Konohamaru
,
Udon
, and
Moegi
 watch from nearby. Sakura continues tending to Sasuke. Meanwhile, Urashiki stirs on the ground.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Sasuke Uchiha
Noriaki Sugiyama
杉山 紀彰
Sugiyama Noriaki
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Jiraiya
Hochu Otsuka
大塚 芳忠
Ōtsuka Hōchū
Sakura Haruno
Chie Nakamura
中村 千絵
Nakamura Chie
Konohamaru
Ikue Otani
大谷 育江
Ōtani Ikue
Moegi
Noriko Shitaya
下屋 則子
Shitaya Noriko
Udon
Tomo Shigematsu
重松 朋
Shigematsu Tomo
Urashiki Ōtsutsuki
Kazuya Nakai
中井 和哉
Nakai Kazuya