"
The Supporting Shadow…!!
" (
支う影…!!
,
Sasaukage…!!
,
Viz:
 The Supporting Shadow!!) is chapter 15 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 manga.

Summary

Tentō
 and
Boruto
 rejoice that their plan to distract then attack
Shojoji
 worked, but is short-lived when the
Mujina Bandits
 boss recovers from the attack. Impressed by Boruto's power he swears to make his death painful when he eats him. Realising that his opponent was badly beaten, Boruto prepares another
Rasengan
 to finish him, however, the
seal
 in Boruto's right palm activates stopping him from moulding chakra and leaving him in pain.
 For a moment, a shocked Shojoji believes Boruto is a member of a "
certain group
", but soon realises that is not the case and prepares to attack the duo once more. before he can reach them, he is
stopped
 by
Mitsuki
, then rendered unconscious by
Sarada
's kick. While glad to see them, Boruto also worries about the mission they were assigned. Both Sarada and Mitsuki tell him that he can make it up to them by buying them coffee and sandwiches, which Tentō gladly offers to pay for. Back in
Konohagakure
,
Konohamaru
 commends his team on rescuing Tentō but advises them to prepare for the fallout of abandoning their original mission.
Ikkyū
 and Tentō soon reunite and the young man declares that he wants to become a strong person that can support him. Before the
daimyō
 and his delegation leave the village, Boruto returns the card that Tentō gave him and ends up going to the shop to buy a pack of the collectable cards, but still doesn't get the one he wants. Sarada tries her luck and gets a super rare
Orochimaru
 card which leads to the team finding out that Orochimaru is Mitsuki's father. Elsewhere,
Ibiki
 and
Sai
 prepare to interrogate the captured Shojoji and calls in
Sasuke Uchiha
 for assistance with the unwilling prisoner. Fear of the famous shinobi quickly causes Shojoji to divulge what he knows about the seal in Boruto's palm and the organisation seeking the seals called "
Kara
". At the same time the named organisation meets, having been assembled by their leader
Jigen
.

Trivia

Despite being chapter 15, when first published, the chapter's cover listed it as chapter 13.

Sai is incorrectly depicted wearing a
forehead protector
 throughout the chapter.