"
The Invisible Dancers — 2
" (
忍び舞う者たち 其ノ弐
,
Shinobimau Mono-Tachi — Sono Ni
,
Viz:
 Those Who Dance in the Shadows, Part 2) is chapter 617 of the original
Naruto
 manga.

Summary

Reflecting on
Naruto
's words,
Lee
 remembers his time with
Neji
 growing up, and as Naruto
transfers
 some of his chakra to Lee, the young man — now resolved — respectfully closes his fallen comrade's eyes. Amazed by the chakra which also surrounded him,
Kakashi
 reflected on his previous conversation with
Shikaku
 as
Kurama
 thought about Naruto's ability to match his own chakra with that of the different
shinobi
. Noting his lineage, Kurama silently mused to
Kushina
 and
Minato
 that their son had surpassed them, but notes that this is the power they wanted to pass onto their son. Meanwhile, atop the
Ten-Tails
,
Madara
 decides to lend a hand to
Obito
 and is able to break out of the
Nara clan
's
Shadow Imitation Technique
. With the beast's tails bearing down on the Alliance, several shinobi attack them, causing the great damage to the beast. As
Hiashi
 declares that Neji's sacrifice would not be in vain, Obito mocks him and has the beast surround them with its tails, thus creating a makeshift cage. Obito then notes the irony that Hiashi's clan had a system in place that essentially left persons in a "
cage
" just waiting to die. Despite this, the newly-empowered Alliance charges forward as Naruto notes that Neji's will was not dead just yet, cutting through the Ten-Tails with one of his
Rasenshuriken
. With Lee declaring that he would take care of Madara, Naruto's left arm, which was still dislocated, is fixed by
Hinata
 via her
Gentle Fist
. Reaching the
Uchiha
, Lee delivers a powerful kick that bisects Madara and Naruto throws his Rasenshuriken which
phases
 through Obito; both of these attacks successfully cut off the Uchiha's connection to the beast, causing them to retreat. With this, Naruto states that, unlike Obito, he did not want to cut off bonds with his comrades, nor did he want them to cut off the ones from them. Meanwhile in
Konohagakure
,
Orochimaru
 and
Taka
 seemingly arrive at their destination.

Trivia

When the alliance along with Naruto charges forward cutting through the Ten-Tails arms, they take the shape of a bird, highlighting the caged bird philosophy that the bird broke the cage and is free, and Neji's will isn't dead.