This article is about the episode. For the actual bridge, see
Tenchi Bridge
.

"
The Tenchi Bridge
" (
天地橋
,
Tenchi-kyō
) is episode 39 of the
Naruto: Shippūden
 anime.

Synopsis

Sai
 uses his
Super Beast Imitating Drawing
 technique to create small mice that scout out the
Tenchi Bridge
. After discovering that there are no traps or individuals on the bridge, thus ruling out the possibility of an
Akatsuki
 ambush,
Yamato
 uses his
Wood Release: Transformation
 technique to turn into
Sasori
's puppet
Hiruko
, based on an image provided to him by
Sunagakure
. After managing to get Hiruko's voice, Yamato sets off towards Tenchi Bridge. Sai,
Naruto
 and
Sakura
 wait behind a rock, observing the bridge. The spy eventually arrives at the bridge around the same time that Yamato does. The spy reveals himself to be none other than
Kabuto Yakushi
, a
Medical-nin
 formerly of
Konohagakure
. Kabuto explains that he had just recently experienced Sasori's
sleeper spy ninjutsu
, and that he had risked his life getting away from
Orochimaru
 long enough to sneak to the bridge. Naruto contemplates on joining Yamato on the bridge as he cannot hear their conversation, but Sakura explains that it is the very wind that hides Kabuto's conversation from their ears that also hides their presence from Kabuto. Unbeknowst to them, Orochimaru himself is observing "Sasori" and Kabuto on the bridge.

Yamato inquires as to where Orochimaru and
Sasuke
 are, and Kabuto replies that Orochimaru has a secret hideout not too far from the bridge. Asking "Sasori" for the object he requested, Yamato believes that he cannot keep the charade up for too long, and pulls out a
kunai
 to apprehend Kabuto. Just at that moment, Orochimaru arrives in an instant, attempting to
use his snakes to bind
 Kabuto, who leaps out of the way and joins his "Lord Sasori". Yamato realises that he is in a pickle - Orochimaru is too powerful for him to take on one-on-one; he could try to fight him alongside Kabuto, but Kabuto would realise that he is not the real Sasori due to the fact that Yamato is not a puppet master; Yamato could signal for his three comrades to help, but Kabuto would most likely flee. Kabuto prepares a
chakra scalpel
 to strike Orochimaru, but instead turns out and slices "Hiruko". The jab breaks the wooden puppet and Yamato jumps into mid-air, having been cut on his right arm. Orochimaru attempts to kill him using his
Many Hidden Shadow Snake Hands
 technique, but Yamato uses a variant of the
Body Replacement Technique
 that uses
Wood Release
 to escape. Orochimaru is surprised at his usage of Wood Release and seems to recognise him. Kabuto, who is actually working with Orochimaru, asks him whether Yamato is Sasori, as Kabuto never saw Sasori's real face. Orochimaru states that it is not, and that he will tell Kabuto about Yamato later; he then asks Yamato to signal his three teammates who are in hiding. Naruto, Sai and Sakura appear, and Kabuto and Orochimaru are amused to see Naruto and Sakura once more. Orochimaru is interested that the
Nine-Tails
'
jinchūriki
 has tagged along, and muses whether he or Sasuke is the strongest. Naruto's eyes, upon facing Orochimaru and Kabuto, turn red due to the Nine-Tails' influence.

Trivia

In the English DVD, this episode is wrongly subtitled as "Untitled".

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Maile Flanagan
Sakura Haruno
Chie Nakamura
中村 千絵
Nakamura Chie
Kate Higgins
Yamato
Rikiya Koyama
小山 力也
Koyama Rikiya
Troy Baker
Sai
Satoshi Hino
日野 聡
Hino Satoshi
Benjamin Diskin
Orochimaru
Kujira
くじら
Kujira
Steve Blum
Kabuto Yakushi
Nobutoshi Kanna
神奈 延年
Kanna Nobutoshi
Henry Dittman
Hiruko
Yutaka Aoyama
青山 穣
Aoyama Yutaka
JB Blanc