"
The Forbidden Visual Jutsu
" (
禁じられた瞳術
,
Kinjirareta Dōjutsu
) is episode 210 of the
Naruto: Shippūden
 anime.

Synopsis

Danzō
 comes face-to-face with "
Itachi
" as
Sasuke
 attempts to impale him from behind. However, Sasuke is paralysed at the last second while Danzō muses that Sasuke's
genjutsu
 pales in comparison to Itachi's proficiency with the
Tsukuyomi
. A
cursed seal
 begins to spread throughout Sasuke's body and
Madara
 realises that Danzō must have applied it when he grabbed Sasuke's throat earlier. Danzō, prying Sasuke's
sword
 out of his hands, muses that leaving him alive was Itachi's greatest mistake and remarks why Itachi would have done such a thing. Recalling how Madara had told him how Itachi was unable to kill him because he thought Sasuke's life was precious, Sasuke manages to manifest a full
Susanoo
 transformation, the resulting
chakra
 eradicating the cursed seal.

Danzō jumps down the ground and uses his
Wind Release: Vacuum Great Sphere
 to expel a sphere of compressed
wind
, although it is unable to take out the Susanoo. Sasuke fashions a bow out of his Susanoo and fires an arrow at Danzō. Despite being impaled, Danzō disappears and rematerialises next to the arrow. Madara is shocked to see that Danzō is employing a secret
kinjutsu
 of the
Uchiha clan
 known as
Izanagi
, which is a powerful
genjutsu
 capable of blurring the lines between reality and illusion and thus can grant its user the ability to avoid being killed. Sasuke fires another arrow at Danzō, who is forced to sprout a tree from his right shoulder to shield himself.
Karin
 wonders why Danzō did not simply use his "immortality" technique to avoid the attack like he had been doing all along, noticing that using the tree significantly decreased his chakra levels. Meanwhile, Madara realises that Danzō's ability to use
Wood Release
 means that Danzō had been transplanted with
Hashirama Senju
's cells by
Orochimaru
, and that the
Senju
 cells allows him to wield multiple Sharingan eyes and to use Izanagi despite not being of Uchiha blood; additionally, possessing the First Hokage's Wood Release in conjunction with the Uchiha's Sharingan would grant Danzō the ability to control a
tailed beast
, notably the
Nine-Tailed Fox
, and thus realises that obtaining
Naruto
 is one of Danzō's goals.

Despite bleeding out of his eye, Sasuke strains himself to fire another arrow, yet Danzō simply uses Izanagi once more to negate its effects. Noticing that Madara is keenly observing the battle and fearful that he may soon join the fray, Danzō decides to
summon

Baku
, a tapir. Using its powerful inhalation, Baku attempts to draw in Sasuke and his Susanoo. Danzō appears behind Sasuke and bombards him with his
Wind Release: Vacuum Serial Waves
, which are augmented by Baku's power, to force the Susanoo towards the tapir. Sasuke takes advantage of Baku's inhalation by unleashing his
Fire Release: Great Fireball Technique
, which Baku immediately ingests; in pain, it dispels itself out of the battle. As Danzō attempts to strike Sasuke from behind, his attack having caused a weak spot in Susanoo's rear armour, Sasuke turns around and has the Susanoo punch Danzō, who uses Izanagi once more to survive unharmed.

Karin
 observes that another Sharingan eye has shut itself on Danzō's right arm. She counts the ten eyes and notices that there are only five left and realises that once the remaining five are sealed shut, Danzō would not be able to evade fatal injuries anymore. She attempts to relay her findings to Sasuke, but he merely tells her that he had already caught on earlier and thus had been forcing Danzō the entire time to continue relying on Izanagi until he used up all ten eyes. Infuriated, Danzō uses
Wind Waves
 to attack the oncoming
Susanoo
; while he does not destroy it, he is able to block it. However, Danzō is punched by the Susanoo once more and uses his seventh eye to utilise Izanagi again. Manifesting himself behind Sasuke, whose Susanoo has faded away, Danzō throws
kunai
 towards him, although Sasuke uses his
bracelets
 to
produce
 shuriken, which he throws back. Unable to evade it in mid-air, Danzō employs Izanagi to elude it, leaving him with only two Sharingan eyes on his right arm. As Sasuke forms his
Chidori Sharp Spear
, he asks Danzō how many Uchihas' had to die in order for him to gain ten Sharingan eyes; Danzo, using his
Wind Release: Vacuum Blade
 to transform his kunai into a sword, replies that he could not have done it without Itachi. The two then lunge towards one another, clashing their blades.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Sasuke Uchiha
Noriaki Sugiyama
杉山 紀彰
Sugiyama Noriaki
Yuri Lowenthal
Karin
Kanako Tojo
東條 加那子
Tōjō Kanako
Ali Hillis
Sixth Hokage: Danzō
Hiroshi Ito
糸 博
Ito Hiroshi
William Knight
Madara Uchiha
Naoya Uchida
内田 直哉
Uchida Naoya
Neil Kaplan
Itachi Uchiha
Hideo Ishikawa
石川 英郎
Ishikawa Hideo
Crispin Freeman