This article is about episode 478. For episode 277, see
Unison Sign
.

"
The Unison Sign
" (
和解の印
,
Wakai no In
) is episode 478 of the
Naruto: Shippūden
 anime.

Synopsis

Thinking back to their previous battles,
Sasuke
 tells
Naruto
 to disappear along with their bond as their attacks connect, resulting in an explosion. Both think back to sparring with one another in the
Academy
, both refusing to perform the Seal of Reconciliation at the end. They recall Naruto saying their next fight would result in their death, in the
Land of Iron
. As they shift through several significant locations from their past, the two wonder if they are dead.
 Sasuke recalls how they were both ostracised from the village, wondering if in that sense, they really were brothers. Naruto denies that conclusion, apologises to
Tsunade
 for dying before becoming
Hokage
, and worries about not being there to release the
Infinite Tsukuyomi
. Sasuke scoffs at his concern with the living, and points out
Sakura
 and
Kakashi
 are still there, and will figure something out. He thinks of meeting
Itachi
 again soon. Sasuke wakes up at nighttime, Naruto telling him if they move too much, they will bleed out and die. Sasuke asks why Naruto tried maintaining his bond with Sasuke once he started cutting them. Naruto points out again that he is his friend. Sasuke asks what that means to him. Naruto explains that seeing Sasuke take on so much hurts him. Sasuke thinks back to seeing Naruto seeking attention, how his attempts to bond reminded him of his own family, and how he also saw it as a weakness. Those sentiments only grew once they were assigned to the same team, and started going in missions together. Sasuke sees the memories of Naruto's struggles, and his exchanges with Itachi about what it means to be Hokage, and Sasuke realizes the importance of his friends. This time, Naruto and Sasuke wake up at dawn. Sasuke laughs when Naruto expresses his wish to keep fighting him in their state. As the sun rises, Sasuke admits defeat, and concludes that if he dies, the cycle of revenge will end with him. Sasuke tells Naruto he can release the Infinite Tsukuyomi after he dies by transplanting his
Rinnegan
 into someone else. Naruto tells him if he is willing to die, he should live and help Naruto make all
shinobi
 cooperate. Sasuke doubts others would want to cooperate with him, and is wary of turning against Naruto again. Naruto is certain he will not, and when Sasuke asks him how he knows, Naruto again alludes to their friendship. Sasuke begins to cry, and turns his face away. Naruto and Sasuke remain there, with their dominant arms destroyed and bleeding.

Trivia

During Sasuke's vision of the bonds Naruto made, the right half of Obito's body isn't made from
Hashirama
's cells, and
Killer B
 is incorrectly depicted wearing a
Allied Shinobi Forces

forehead protector
.

Instead of the usual ending animation, the credits are played over a montage of Naruto and Sasuke’s childhood.

This is the first episode in the franchise to have the episode title appear after the ending credits.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Maile Flanagan
Sasuke Uchiha
Noriaki Sugiyama
杉山 紀彰
Sugiyama Noriaki
Yuri Lowenthal