"
The Princess's Tea Party
" (
お姫様のお茶会
,
Ohime-sama no Ochakai
) is episode 262 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

At the
Academy
,
Himawari
 asks
Kawaki
 if he'll be protecting
Kae
 again that day, startling him. He deduces she eavesdropped on him. She promises to keep his secret
mission
 quiet, and explains he's been acting different since starting at the Academy. Himawari offers to help him, but he refuses. Kae's class-mates noticed how little she eats compared to everyone else, attributing it to her refined upbringing.
Osuka
 brags about her personal chef, and bosses
Neon
 about her tea, which she delivers with a drone. Because her parents are executives at the
Kaminarimon Company
, she has access to many prototypes.
Eiki
 remains suspicious of Kawaki. Kae excuses to herself to have a proper meal alone. Kawaki warns that if she insists on keeping up appearances, she'll never hit it off with anyone. Kae decides to host an event to let her make many friends at once. Osuka is planning to host a tea party, and denies wanting friends when Neon suggests that's the case, claiming she wants to emulate
her mother
. At the classroom, Kae invites everyone to a tea party that weekend.
Ehō
 passes on it, and Osuka is frustrated on being upstaged. At night, Kawaki recalls
Naruto
's and
Shikamaru
's instructions to protect her at the party, and decides to figure the tea party out as it unfolds. Himawari startles him, saying that's not an option, and stresses the importance of proper tea party etiquette, saying he needs her help.
 Kae decorates a cake by herself, despite
Batora
's opinion of it being unnecessary. Kae wants to be a perfect host, like her mother used to be, recalling her advice to do things her own way. The next day, Kae's class-mates are impressed by the tea party, but are puzzled by Kawaki's presence. Kawaki's unconvincing answer when Eiki questions his attendance requires Himawari to cover for him. When he claims his favourite sweet is taiyaki, the kids are surprised that Kae doesn't know what it is. Kawaki struggles to remember Himawari's instructions, drawing attention to himself, but she aids him quickly. Osuka tries to downplay her enjoyment of Kae's tea. When she mentions her parents' actor friends attending tea parties at her house, Himawari mentions
Gaara
 as a friend of her parents who visits them, who their class-mates find even more impressive, frustrating Osuka. Kae and Himawari bond over having leaders for fathers. Kae asks Kawaki why he decided to attend the Academy, and recalling Himawari's advice not to talk anything violent, claims that he could have his fill of taiyaki by earning money as a shinobi. They laugh, being more at ease with Kawaki's awkwardness when they previously found him scary. When Kae leaves to get the cake, a few of the kids comment on how exhausting the formality of the party is. Kae's servants serve the cake, which Osuka secretly injected with spicy mustard. Kawaki smells it, and thinking it's an assassin's poison, rushes over, knocking over the tables to stop Kae from eating it. He also knocks over Batora. Eiki, covered in cake, starts fighting Kawaki. Kae tells them to stop, and asks why Kawaki did it. He can't answer her without exposing his mission. She feels sad, having put so much effort in the cake, and is hurt when Kawaki is dismissive of it. He leaves to cool off, and Osuka is pleased the party was ruined. Neon goes to the restroom. Himawari admonishes Kawaki, telling him to apologise, but to him, if she hates him, that's ok. She realises Kawaki did it because of the mission, and he explains there was something in the cake. Himawari realises it was just a prank with mustard, not an assassination attempt. They deduce it was Osuka, but Himawari wants evidence before accusing her. They check with Batora that the freezer where the cake was stored was closed, but they spot a small open window. Kawaki realises something, and tells Himawari to get to Kae before him. Osuka berates Kae for the incident, who feels she can't react emotionally because of her status. Other students think Osuka is going overboard with it. Himawari arrives, showing everyone the cake had mustard hidden in it. Kawaki arrives with Neon's drone, exposing Osuka as having ordered her to do it, having already questioned Neon, who confessed everything. Osuka tries blaming everything on Neon. Kae yells at her to apologise to Neon and everyone. She's fine with Osuka being upfront with disliking her, but can't forgive forcing Neon into doing something she doesn't want to do. Osuka starts to cry, and Neon attempts to console her. Kae tries to compose herself, but her outburst has endeared her to everyone else. Himawari and Kawaki advise her not to suppress herself. Kawaki says they should give the party another try, and brings in a lot of taiyaki, which Kae tries and enjoys. He apologises for before. Kae is happy it turned out ok, recalling her mother. Osuka promises it's not over between them. Himawari gets Kawaki to admit she helped him, so he won't refuse her help again with the mission. However, he won't let Himawari risk herself.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Kawaki
Yuma Uchida
内田 雄馬
Uchida Yūma
Himawari Uzumaki
Saori Hayami
早見 沙織
Hayami Saori
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Shikamaru Nara
Shotaro Morikubo
森久保 祥太郎
Morikubo Shōtarō
Kae Yukiwari
Inori Minase
水瀬 いのり
Minase Inori
Batora Kuromori
Isshin Chiba
千葉 一伸
Chiba Isshin
Kae's mother
Juri Nagatsuma
長妻 樹里
Nagatsuma Juri
Ehō Norimaki
Ryoko Shiraishi
白石 涼子
Shiraishi Ryōko
Yuina Itomaki
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Sōsha Amino
Yuka Saito
斉藤 佑圭
Saitō Yuka
Osuka Kamakura
Rina Hidaka
日高 里菜
Hidaka Rina
Neon Asakusa
Manaka Iwami
石見 舞菜香
Iwami Manaka
Harika Aburame
Tomo Muranaka
村中 知
Muranaka Tomo
Eiki Fūma
Takuto Yoshinaga
吉永 拓斗
Yoshinaga Takuto
Konashi Nerikiri
Kazutomi Yamamoto
山本 和臣
Yamamoto Kazutomi
Soul Tao
Akane Yamaguchi
山口 茜
Yamaguchi Akane
Kura Kageno
Yui Otagiri
小田切 優衣
Otagiri Yui
Ran Sōgi
Misuzu Yamada
山田 美鈴
Yamada Misuzu
Suzu Sōgi
Rin Aira
逢来 りん
Aira Rin