"
The Steam Ninja Scrolls: The Dog and Cat War!
" (
湯煙忍法帖・犬猫戦争!!
,
Yukemuri Ninpōchō: Inuneko Sensō!!
) is episode 107 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

On their way to the hot springs district,
Mirai
 is bothered by not having brought enough clothes for the duration of the mission.
Guy
 and
Kakashi
 disagree on what she should focus on to overcome it. They comment on how she inherited her
mother
's traits and
genjutsu
. Arriving at the town, Guy finds it unusually populated, thinking it was a quieter town. Noticing the people wearing dog and cat masks, Kakashi recalls what the
festival
 is about, and explains to Mirai the town's origins, and how different people celebrate different dog and cat deities, depending on which version of the town's origins they believe, and about a third destruction deity, neither cat nor dog. Cat lovers and dog lovers from various lands come to the festival, culminating in a shrine fight. While going through the crowd, they end up finding
Kiba
 and
Tamaki
 leading the dog lovers and cat lovers respectively. They came to the festival on a date and ended up taking sides.
 Mirai wonders if they should try to reconcile them, but Kakashi and Guy point out their matter is a private one. They figure that being able to stay in the town depends on making peace between the dog lovers and cat lovers, making the issue part of the mission. Mirai talks to Tamaki, trying to reconcile her and Kiba. She's upset because this was supposed to be a date, and spending time with him is difficult since he never gets days off in the Police Force. Mirai tries talking to Kiba, but he is too caught up with the dog lovers exalting his accomplishments to back down. Mirai tries to pass a peace-offering of her own as Kiba's, but ends up escalating the conflict. At night, the shrine fight begins. When Kakashi muses they might have to destroy everything before they consider talking, this gives Mirai an idea. She asks Guy for a lighter and uses its
flame
 to
fake an appearance of the destruction deity
, presenting it as half dog and half cat. The devout worshippers promptly believe it, but Guy attacks the apparition and destroys a wall separating the dog and cat hot springs. The festival goers take it as a sign that Guy is a messenger of the destruction deity, telling them to stop being divided and celebrate as one. Kiba and Tamaki make up. Mirai gets to take her bath. Kakashi tells her that using the lighter for Fire Release is just like her
father
, explaining she used both her parents' jutsu to resolve the issue. Kakashi leaves to soak in another hot spring, leaving Mirai wishing to learn more about her father.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Mirai Sarutobi
Eri Goda
合田 絵利
Gōda Eri
Kakashi Hatake
Kazuhiko Inoue
井上 和彦
Inoue Kazuhiko
Might Guy
Masashi Ebara
江原 正士
Ebara Masashi
Kiba Inuzuka
Kosuke Toriumi
鳥海 浩輔
Toriumi Kōsuke
Tamaki
Aoi Inase
いなせ あおい
Inase Aoi
Border hot springs town people
Ryo Nishitani
Katsunori Okai
Natsumi Yamada
Kumi Takaragi
Kazuya Saji
Daichi Fujiwara
西谷 亮
岡井 カツノリ
山田 奈都美
宝木 久美
佐治 和也
藤原 大智
Nishitani Ryō
Okai Katsunori
Yamada Natsumi
Takaragi Kumi
Saji Kazuya
Fujiwara Daichi