"
The Akatsuki Makes Its Move
" (
暁、始動
,
Akatsuki, Shidō
) is episode 2 of the
Naruto: Shippūden
 anime.

Synopsis

Tsunade
 tells
Naruto
 that she has prepared an opponent for Naruto to test his skills against. Before she can finish, two ninja knock on the door and enter - none other than
Shikamaru
 and
Temari
.
Sakura
 proudly tells Shikamaru to guess who has returned, and it takes Shikamaru a few seconds to realise that it is Naruto, while Temari ponders whether the Naruto standing in front of her is the same Naruto she once knew. Naruto asks whether Shikamaru is his opponent, and Shikamaru tells him that he has no clue what Naruto is talking about, as he is here only to drop off some paperwork. Tsunade tells Naruto that his opponent is right outside. Naruto then opens the window and sees his old sensei,
Kakashi
, sitting there reading
Icha Icha
. Naruto decides to bestow a present to Kakashi, and gives Kakashi the latest volume of Icha Icha that
Jiraiya
 wrote, which has not even been released yet. Kakashi is overwhelmed, but Tsunade tells him to get a grip. Naruto then asks Kakashi if he is his opponent, and Kakashi states that he is both his and Sakura's opponent; Tsunade not only wished to test Naruto's training that Jiraiya put him under, but also the training she gave to Sakura. However, as Kakashi wants to start reading the book Naruto gave him, he tells Naruto that they cannot begin the exercise now since Naruto must be tired from his journey.

As Naruto berates Kakashi for leaving them just to read the book, Sakura decides that they should take the time to discuss an ample strategy to use against Kakashi. The pair are tailed by Shikamaru and Temari, prompting Naruto to bluntly ask them if they are a couple. Shikamaru and Temari both protest, and explain that they are both representatives of their respective villages for the upcoming
Chūnin Exams
. Shikamaru then asks Naruto if he is going to be participating in the exams, as he is the only one from their year who is still a
genin
. Naruto is shell-shocked at this revelation, after finding out that even Sakura made
Chūnin
. Shikamaru goes on to add that
Neji
,
Kankurō
 and Temari have even reached
Jōnin
 rank. Naruto is amazed that they have become Jōnin, but quickly interrupts himself to ask what became of
Gaara
, and finds out that Gaara has become the
Kazekage
 of
Sunagakure
. He proudly announces that he will not be outdone by Gaara and that his dream is still to be
Hokage
.

Meanwhile, Jiraiya manages to locate Kakashi, who is reading his book. Kakashi and Jiraiya take a walk, and Jiraiya explains that he is now returning Naruto to Kakashi's care, and that Naruto must be ready to face the
Akatsuki
, who are coming out of the shadows and want Naruto due to the
Nine-Tailed Fox
 he has sealed within him. Jiraiya tells Kakashi that he has alerted all of their neighbouring allies about the Akatsuki, and that they should prepare themselves. In Suna,
Baki
 tells Gaara that the council is having a meeting. At the meeting, a Suna shinobi named
Yūra
 explains that Suna has prospered the last few years, having adopted some of Konoha's methods. However, he also brings up the Akatsuki, and how Jiraiya warned him that they would be coming. After the meeting, Yūra clutches his head in pain, albeit dismissing it as a minor headache to a fellow shinobi.

Back in Konoha, Naruto and Sakura are at the training grounds when Kakashi appears. Naruto and Sakura recall the training grounds as the location of their very first training test, and immediately reminisce on their memories of
Team 7
, back when
Sasuke
 was on the team. The mere thought and mention of Sasuke bums the two out, but they are snapped out of it by the chime of bells. Kakashi tells them that they would be doing the same test they did the first time they became ninja, to
take the bell
 from Kakashi. Naruto asks whether Kakashi would be reading the whole time, and Sakura adds that he most likely already finished. Kakashi tells them that he has not finished reading, but that he cannot afford to read during this exercise, as both Naruto and Sakura have been trained by a
Sannin
. Kakashi then raises his
forehead protector
, as he claims he would need his
Sharingan
 to take on the two at once. The trio are being watched in the shadows by Jiraiya, Tsunade and
Shizune
, the latter three interested in the outcome of the match.

In Sunagakure, two Akatsuki members,
Sasori
 and
Deidara
, arrive. Their secret agent Yūra manages to murder all of Suna's posted guards, allowing the pair access to the village.

Trivia

This episode and episode 1 were originally aired together as an hour-long premier special.

The first appearance of Kakashi after the timeskip is different to that of the manga.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Maile Flanagan
Sakura Haruno
Chie Nakamura
中村 千絵
Nakamura Chie
Kate Higgins
Kakashi Hatake
Kazuhiko Inoue
井上 和彦
Inoue Kazuhiko
Dave Wittenberg
Fifth Hokage: Tsunade
Masako Katsuki
勝生 真沙子
Katsuki Masako
Debi Mae West
Shizune
Keiko Nemoto
根本 圭子
Nemoto Keiko
Megan Hollingshead
Jiraiya
Hochu Otsuka
大塚 芳忠
Ōtsuka Hōchū
David Lodge
Shikamaru Nara
Shotaro Morikubo
森久保 祥太郎
Morikubo Shōtarō
Tom Gibis
Temari
Romi Park
朴 璐美
Paku Romi
Tara Platt
Deidara
Katsuhiko Kawamoto
川本 克彦
Kawamoto Katsuhiko
Roger Craig Smith
Sasori
Yutaka Aoyama
青山 穣
Aoyama Yutaka
JB Blanc
Gaara
Akira Ishida
石田 彰
Ishida Akira
Liam O'Brien
Baki
Joji Nakata
中田 譲治
Nakata Jōji
Sam Riegel
Yūra
Hideo Watanabe
渡辺 英雄
Watanabe Hideo
Keith Silverstein
Suna-nin senior
Masafumi Kimura
木村 雅史
Kimura Masafumi
Kirk Thornton
Patrolling ninja
Keiichi Takahashi
高橋 圭一
Takahashi Keiichi
Dan Woren
Iruka Umino
Toshihiko Seki
関 俊彦
Seki Toshihiko
Quinton Flynn