"
The New Akatsuki
" (
新生・“暁”
,
Shinsei: Akatsuki
) is episode 348 of the
Naruto: Shippūden
 anime.

Summary

Yahiko
 and
Nagato
 talk, with Yahiko revealing he wants to step down as the leader of the Akatsuki and have Nagato replace him. The talk is quickly interrupted by
Kyūsuke
 who reveals to the two that a representative from
Hanzō
's group has arrived, surprising Yahiko and Nagato. The group meet Kanzō (in reality a disguised
Danzō Shimura
) who informs them that he is an adviser and Hanzō has given his approval to the group and wishes to meet with them to discuss an offering of peace via a scroll that Yahiko receives from Kyūsuke. The group is overjoyed by the news, Yahiko remarking that so many gave their lives for them to reach this point as Nagato tells him he doesn't need to leave as his words and the desire to help others who were suffering reached Hanzō. When Kyūsuke suggests they go as backup, Yahiko talks them out of it, stating it would be meaningless. He then announces that the group should suspend their duties for the rest of the day and celebrate, the group cheering. Meanwhile, at Hanzō's residence, Hanzō and Danzō talk, the two noting that the Akatsuki members are unaware that the entire "meeting" is a trap while
Konan
 who's out on patrol ends up investigating some dead bodies which soon explode, releasing gas that knocks her out. Before she loses consciousness, she sees two of Hanzō's men standing over her.

Early the next day, Nagato meets Obito who yet again wants Nagato to join him but Nagato refuses. Once Obito has left, Yahiko arrives in and tells Nagato if someone was just here. Nagato brushes it off. Yahiko then tells him they should leave or they'll be late to the arranged meeting with Hanzō. A few hours later, as Kyūsuke and the others sleep, a messenger mouse arrives, delivering a scroll to Kyūsuke which has him awakening the others. As they race to the location, Kyūsuke reveals to the others that
Konoha
's
Root
 division are attempting an assassination of the Akatsuki leaders. Their paths are blocked by
Obito
 and
Zetsu
, Obito revealing he wants Nagato to know what true pain really is. Kyūsuke and the other members fight, Kyusuke noting that for the first time in his life as an orphan of war, he found hope in the Akatsuki and he won't let them take that away with Kyusuke sacrificing himself in an attempt to kill Obito which fails. The rest of the group are then defeated and subsequently killed via Obito's
Wood Release: Cutting Technique
 as Obito and Zetsu depart, leaving the dead bodies of the rest of the Akatsuki group behind. The two arrive in time to witness Hanzō threatening Yahiko, claiming that as the leader of Akatsuki, Yahiko must die and that if he refuses, Konan who's been taken as a hostage will die. Hanzō then throws a kunai which lands in the ground a few metres away from Nagato, telling Nagato he must kill Yahiko and if that happens, Nagato and Konan will be allowed to live. Despite Konan's pleading for her teammates to leave her, they refuse. Nagato picks up the kunai and begins panicking. Not wanting Nagato to suffer, Yahiko impales himself on the kunai Nagato's holding and expresses his hope Nagato will change the world before he falls to the ground, dead. Obito who watches the scene unfold finds himself remembering the day Kakashi killed Rin.

With Yahiko now dead, Hanzo orders his men and the Root shinobi to kill Konan and Nagato as well. This has Nagato using his
Rinnegan
 to stop the approaching kunai which then fall harmlessly to the ground, surprising some of the troops and as Nagato saves Konan, Hanzo uses
Fire Release: Exploding Flame Formation
 to badly damage Nagato's legs. Despite that, Nagato refuses to give up. With the troops approaching, Nagato summons the
Demonic Statue of the Outer Path
 much to Konan's shock, the statue also sending large black receivers into Nagato's own back with the attack manifesting into a dragon who eventually kills the men by claiming their souls, leaving their corpses behind. Once that's over, Hanzō acknowledges Nagato's efforts, revealing that Nagato was the true leader of Akatsuki all along. Despite that, Nagato is not completely satisfied and attempts to kill Hanzō who uses the
Body Flicker Technique
 to escape. The statue then disappears, revealing that in addition to his legs being badly damaged from the earlier attack, Nagato has also become frail and very emaciated, the receivers also now permanently embedded in his back. Sometime later, Nagato is finally driven by
Obito Uchiha
's
Eye of the Moon Plan
 and along with Konan, agrees to join Obito, Nagato repeating the words Madara told Obito including the fact that hatred is born from wanting to protect love with it also being revealed that due to his injuries, Nagato remains in a machine. Then as Obito and Zetsu leave, Nagato states that Yahiko will always be the true leader of the Akatsuki as it's revealed that Yahiko's body is now the
Deva Path
 and the first of Nagato's
Six Paths of Pain
.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Yahiko
Kenyu Horiuchi
堀内 賢雄
Horiuchi Ken'yū
Matthew Mercer
Nagato
Junpei Morita
森田 順平
Morita Junpei
Vic Mignogna
Konan
Atsuko Tanaka
田中 敦子
Tanaka Atsuko
Dorothy Elias-Fahn
Madara Uchiha
Naoya Uchida
内田 直哉
Uchida Naoya
Neil Kaplan
Zetsu
Nobuo Tobita
飛田 展男
Tobita Nobuo
Travis Willingham
Danzō
Hiroshi Ito
糸 博
Ito Hiroshi
William Knight
Hanzō of the Salamander
Ikuya Sawaki
沢木 郁也
Sawaki Ikuya
Richard Epcar
Kyūsuke‎‎
Hidenobu Kiuchi
木内 秀信
Kiuchi Hidenobu
Keith Silverstein
Daibutsu‎‎
Kosuke Goto
後藤 光祐
Gotō Kōsuke
Travis Willingham