The
Third Great Beast Arc
 spans from episodes 195 to 196 of the
Naruto
 anime. This arc is preceded by the
Peddlers Escort Mission
,
Matchmaking Proxy Mission
, and the
Lady Daimyō Search Mission
. It is followed by the
Konoha Plans Recapture Mission
.

Summary

While going through a standard check-up with
Tsunade
, Naruto learned that
Lee
's recovery from his injuries during the
Chūnin Exams
 was still questionable. Later, Naruto and
Tenten
 went to check on Lee just in time to see him in a practice match against young prodigy named
Yagura
. To Naruto, Tenten, and
Guy
's amazement, not only was Yagura able to push Lee back in taijutsu combat, but was also able to use an advanced taijutsu technique to nearly break Lee's ankle. Later when Naruto and Tenten were worrying about Lee's well-being,
Neji
 convinced them to have faith in Lee as Neji had learned, stating bluntly that Lee has the potential to surpass any prodigy despite his shortcomings because of his dedication.





Might Guy vs. Rock Lee



Later when Guy went on a mission with Yagura, it was discovered that the boy, who was with Guy, was actually an
impostor
. Tsunade quickly sent Neji, Tenten, and Naruto to go after Guy. Tsunade also decided not to tell Lee in fear he would follow them despite his ankle injury. Upon catching up with Guy, it was discovered that he was already captured by a
ninja team of brothers
 who wielded a unique Puppet Technique that
controlled wooden training dummies
 and were on a mission of revenge against Guy for their
father's
 death. While Naruto and the team managed to fight back the dummies, Lee surprisingly showed up and rushed to aid his sensei. As Naruto and the team began to tire, Guy and Lee managed to defeat the brother's dummy fortress and break the technique. Afterwards, Guy revealed to everyone the story behind his battle with the brothers' father, making the brothers realise that their father didn't have contempt for Guy, but respect. This meant their desire for revenge was pointless.

Episodes

#

Episode Title

Japanese Airdate

English Airdate

195

"
The Third Super-Beast!
"

26 July 2006

6 September 2008

196

"
Hot-Blooded Confrontation: Student vs. Sensei
"

9 August 2006

13 September 2008