The
Third Division
 (
第三部隊
,
Daisan Butai
,
Viz:
 Third Company), also known as the
Short and Mid-Range Battle Division
 (
戦闘近中距離部隊
,
Sentō Kinchūkyori Butai
,
English TV:
 Intermediate-Battle Unit), was a battalion in the
Allied Shinobi Forces
 led by
Kakashi Hatake
 of
Konohagakure
, formed for the
Fourth Shinobi World War
.

Composition

The Third Division is composed of several thousands of shinobi and samurai alike who mainly focus on short-to-mid-range combat. According to
Shikamaru Nara
 in the anime, the division is tasked to support both short-ranged and mid-ranged battles, so the shinobi in it must possess a notable amount of physical strength.

History

Upon its formation, the division advances ahead of the rest of the Allied Forces. When they are just beyond the
Land of Frost
's border they spot a red flare belonging to part of the
Surprise Attack Division
, indicating that they require immediate assistance.
 The Third Division heads in their direction and arrives in time to save them from a
reincarnated

Haku
,
Zabuza Momochi
,
Gari
 and
Pakura
. Zabuza and Haku, having known Kakashi during their lifetime, catch up with him and ask about
his team
. Their
summoner
, fearing their connections to Kakashi may cause him to lose control of them, immediately suppresses their personalities. Not wanting to fight Kakashi but unable to stop themselves, Zabuza and Haku spend their last moments of autonomy asking that he stop them.






The Third Division starts an offensive against the Seven Ninja Swordsmen of the Mist.



Zabuza then envelops the area in a
thick mist
 to reduce visibility, prompting each of the battle squadrons to adopt
Manji Formations
 to better protect their now essential
sensors
. No longer bound by emotions, Haku, Pakura, and Gari use their respective
kekkei genkai
 to decimate the Third Division, even with their defensive measures. The many deaths causes morale to drop amongst the less-experienced shinobi, but
Might Guy
 reminds them of their duties. Kakashi eventually picks up on the enemy's tactics and prepares to start a counter-offensive. Before he can do so, however, the previous generation of the
Seven Ninja Swordsmen of the Mist
 are summoned to tip the scales against the Allies.

Recognising the danger they are now in, Kakashi quickly organises a team to try and turn things around. While he does so, the rest of the Third Division bombards the Seven Swordsmen with a variety of weapons and attacks. The Swordsmen, because of their reincarnation, instantly recover from any damage.
Mangetsu Hōzuki
 then summons five of the Seven Swordsmen's blades, which they use to
silently
 pick-off the Allies. With casualties mounting rapidly, Kakashi devises a strategy to eliminate Zabuza and the mist he is producing: with the help of
Santa Yamanaka
 he will locate Zabuza and have
Ensui Nara

restrain
 him. Once this is done,
Maki
 will
capture
 Zabuza, thereby ending the mist.






The Third Division confronts the members of the Seven Ninja Swordsmen of the Mist.



As part of the plan, Kakashi sneaks up on Zabuza and tries to hit him with the
Lightning Cutter
. Haku blocks the attack and Zabuza
cuts through
 Haku to try and kill Kakashi.
 Kakashi is able to avoid a fatal injury. Knowing that Zabuza would not have done that to Haku when he was alive, Kakashi finds new resolve to stop Zabuza from committing any additional acts he would never have condoned. He sinks another Lightning Cutter into Zabuza, distracting him long enough to be caught by Ensui. Maki then binds Zabuza and Haku and places seals on the two to prevent their summoner from recalling them. With the mist now gone, an angry Kakashi picks up Zabuza's sword and requests
Sai
's help: to provide backup with his sealing techniques while Kakashi - the man that copied a thousand techniques - goes on a rampage.






Naruto arrives to aid the Third Division.



As night falls, the remaining swordsmen seemingly retreat. The Third Division hides within the forest to rest and recuperate. The next day, they continued their fight against the swordsmen, Gari, and Pakura. By morning, Kakashi now wielding the Kubikiribōchō charged with
lightning
-natured chakra, slashed through
Fuguki Suikazan
 and Sai
sealed him in a drawing
, leaving only
three

enemies

remaining
. Just then another set of
White Zetsu
 show up as reinforcements and one of
Naruto
's clones arrive to lend his support.

From later reports at headquarters, the Third Division was able to successfully annihilate their opponents with only one of the Seven Swordsmen of the Mist remaining, and were instructed to assist
Naruto
 and
Killer B
 once they were finished. Eventually, the division meets up with the rest of the Allied Shinobi Forces to fight against the
Ten-Tails
 under the command of
Madara Uchiha
 and
Obito Uchiha
.

References