The Third Training Ground.



The
Third Training Ground
 (
第三演習場
,
Daisan Enshūjō
) is a training ground where Konoha
shinobi
 hone their skills. The Third Training Ground was the first place where
Team Kakashi
 trained, using the
bell training
 and previously used by the
Team Hiruzen
.

Appearance





An aerial view of the Third Training Ground.



The third training ground is a portion of land located inside of Konoha. There is a view of mountains in the landscape and a large and deep river with forests in the both of its sides. There is a glade and in its centre there are three stumps lined side by side where
Kakashi
 and
Hiruzen
 used to tie their students, below there is the
memorial stone
, a polished
kunai
-shaped structure.

History

This ground was used by Kakashi to the survival training with bells, the same method used by the Third Hokage on
his

own

students
.
Sakura
 and
Sasuke
 tried to get the bells and failed, while
Naruto
 was trying to skip the bell training and just go after the reward without getting the bell. Because of this, Naruto ended being tied up while forced to watch his comrades eat, after which they would be given a second chance for the bells. But Sasuke and Sakura, realising they would work better as a team if Naruto was not hungry, broke the rule and gave Naruto some of their food. Because of this, Kakashi, their
jōnin
 sensei, passed them saying that
"In the ninja world, those who break the rules and regulations are called trash, but those who don't care about their comrades are worse than trash."

Before the finals of the
Chūnin Exams
, Naruto came to the field nervous about his match with
Neji
. There he was surprised to find
Hinata
. He revealed his doubts about the match and his own abilities to her. Hinata told him he was wrong, and that in reality she viewed him as a proud failure who never gave up. This restored Naruto's confidence in himself and helped him win his match against Neji.

After about three years, Naruto and Sakura once again had the same bell training with Kakashi so he could see how they had improved. Kakashi is able to see the results of their training with
Tsunade
 and
Jiraiya
, but they were still unable to beat him until Naruto threatens to tell Kakashi the conclusion of the new "
Icha Icha
" book, making the latter cover his ears so he can't hear them, then closing his eyes to prevent his
Sharingan
 from reading their lips. They then took the bells, and Naruto revealed that he had only read the first ten pages, much to Kakashi's humiliation.

See Also

Forty-Fourth Training Ground

Zeroth Training Ground