"
Those Like-Minded
" (
通ずる物
,
Tsūzuru mono
) is chapter 26 of the
Boruto: Two Blue Vortex
 manga.

Summary

Inojin
 visits
Himawari
 at her home, gifting her her favourite flavor of honey. As he leaves,
Koji
's
toad
 communicates with the boy. Koji asks if Inojin harbors romantic feelings towards Himawari, confirming his suspicions are correct as he reads Inojin's change in expression. Inojin also confirms with Koji that he will do anything to protect her. As their interests are aligned, Koji invites Inojin back to his hideout via
Reverse Summoning Technique
, where Koji formally introduces himself as one who is fighting to defend the planet from the current threat. Inojin also meets
Boruto
 who ensures Inojin is not in danger, but there is no physical exit and he has no means of escaping.

At the
Human God Trees
' base,
Hidari
 notices
Jura
 shedding a tear as he reads a novel, and Jura explains that despite it being a fictional story, it managed to unexpectedly touch his heart. Hidari compares Jura's current emotion to back when he sensed
Matsuri
's emotions during her encounter with
Konohamaru
.
Mamushi
 breaks his silence, stating that his decision to devour
Ada
 mainly stems from control, wanting her superior genetic information for himself. Noting that he doesn't care about the concept of love, Mamushi suggests that as Human God Trees, they should thrive more as a species, while Jura concurs that this may not be a bad method to learn more about love.

Back in
Konohagakure
,
Shikamaru
 is telepathically contacted by Koji via Inojin's
Mind Body Transmission Technique
, as Inojin is fully cooperating with them, and this transmission will be kept secret from the Sensory Division. Shikamaru is on his way to meet with the
Konoha Council
 as he was summoned, and he cannot talk right now. Koji responds that this is the exact reason why he reached out to Shikamaru, stating that in the worst case scenario, Shikamaru may lose his position as
Hokage
, which Shikamaru was afraid of. However, Koji will give him as much advice as he can to prevent this from happening, as Shikamaru losing his position would be disadvantageous to him. Shikamaru arrives at the Council Meeting where he encounters Konohamaru,
Sai
,
Koharu Utatane
,
Homura Mitokado
, and to his surprise,
Kobu
, the personal aide of the
Land of Fire
's
Daimyō
. Koharu wishes to discuss the mission in the
Land of Wind
, which Shikamaru arbitrarily planned. Kobu reveals that the Daimyō is questioning Shikamaru's authority as village head, threatening more than just simple budget cuts depending on the circumstances. Shikamaru proceeds to explain the severity of the current threat, and his rash decisions are primarily based on intel that was provided to him, however to Koji's suggestion, he does not reveal the source of the intel. Shikamaru decided to follow his own intuition, assuming full responsibility for what consequences there may be. Homura and Koharu suspect that Boruto is the source of this intel as there are rumors spreading that he is secretly conspiring with the Human God Trees, as he knows quite a bit about them, in an attempt to deceive Konohagakure with fake intel to overthrow them from within. Konohamaru interjects, and when Shikamaru tries to stop him, Koji tells Shikamaru to allow him to talk as it would be beneficial for the Councilors to redirect their ire at him. Konohamaru believes that Boruto has no intention of harming the village, giving him praise for saving his life in the most recent mission, however the Councilors are adamant that Boruto is an irredeemable criminal that does not deserve the benefit of the doubt. Kobu suspects that there is a mole in the higher ranks of Konohagakure, which would be a major threat to the security and prestige of the village. Ordering Sai to take Konohamaru to the interrogation room for questioning, Kobu declares he will expose this mole and requests to question anyone who has had direct contact with Boruto, believing Boruto had help from the inside when he escaped his interrogation.

Inojin expresses his nervousness with Koji and Boruto about all of the regulations they just broke by spying on the Councilor meeting. Boruto and Koji both agree that they must conform to crafty methods in order to deal with the enemy. Inojin accepts that he must have proper power and resolve if he wants to protect who he loves, recalling his past encounter with Jura. Koji changes the subject, asking Boruto if he came to terms with
Momoshiki
. Boruto gives a purposefully vague answer, and the two scold each other for keeping specific details secret from the other person. Shikamaru later updates Koji on Konohamaru being taken in for questioning and his turn will be coming soon. Koji states that Mamushi will arrive at Konohagakure in one week from today, and his target will be Ada. He will inform the group about Mamushi's ability and how to counter it.

At the safehouse,
Sumire
 and
Sarada
 are talking with Ada about admitting their feelings for Boruto to him, while
Daemon
 is listening in. Sarada and Sumire both concur that this would make things awkward between them, and Boruto already has a lot of things on his mind as it is. Ada then suddenly changes the subject, asking the two if they are truly victims of her enchantment. Sarada and Sumire both grow visibly nervous as Daemon coldly stares at them. Sumire remembers Shikamaru's words about making sure they do not allow Ada and Daemon to find out about their immunity, as their lives would be in danger since they would be effective in killing Ada should the need arise. Ada confirms her suspicions by noting that it would not be normally possible for two of her victims to openly talking about liking someone else in front of her.

As Daemon begins walking towards them, Sarada abruptly activates her
Mangekyō Sharingan
, but before the two can react, Daemon jumps behind them and grabs them both by the necks. Noticing that Sarada tried to make a move, Daemon menacingly states that whatever she does would be useless if she died before she could launch it.