"
Those Who Remain and Those Who Pass On
" (
残せし者と継ぎし者
,
Nokoseshi Mono to Tsugishi Mono
,
Viz:
 Bequeath and Inherit) is chapter 686 of the original
Naruto
 manga.

Summary

Hagoromo
's spirit informs the
Hokage
 of the events that transpired after the
Infinite Tsukuyomi
 was cast. He also informs them that due to
Madara
's lower half still containing Yang-
Kurama
's as well as both
Indra
's and
Asura
's
chakras
, they fully combined, resulting in his spirit finally emerging.
Minato
 questions Hagoromo on a technique he told them earlier, but he said it would require a huge amount of chakra, which he does not have at the moment, having given
Naruto
 and
Sasuke
 his chakra earlier. Charging the Hokage before him, he asks them to listen and do what he asks.
 Meanwhile,
Kaguya
 fights against Naruto's
shadow clones
 in an attempt to kill the real one. She fires two
bones
 at him, but was stopped by two clones who protect the main body. As the clones disintegrate, more converge in one place forming a defensive liven between them, proving
Black Zetsu
's theory correct that the one with the
Truth-Seeking Balls
 was the real one. While Kaguya fights the clones,
Kakashi
 looks on, and begins to feel helpless. Just as he was starting to doubt himself, Naruto's words manage to shake him out of it.
Obito
,
Sakura
, and Sasuke soon arrive from the
desert dimension
 but, just as Naruto was about to come to Sasuke, Kaguya suddenly grabs him with her
hair
 and stabs him. Everyone looking in horror, Naruto began to wither away, but suddenly disappears in a puff of smoke, revealing it was yet another shadow clone. Irked by this, Kaguya concedes to the direness of the situation and once again
shifts
 everyone to another dimension, this time, to a high gravity dimension, where all the clones fall out of the sky and start to disappear and everyone else is pinned down, including Kaguya. Kaguya then sprouts more bones, aiming them both at Naruto and Sasuke, who luckily dodged them thanks to the effect of the gravity. As Kaguya prepared to fire again, both Kakashi and Obito run towards them and prepare to die, as they do so, they see a vision of
Rin
 and their younger selves holding hands. Both men were ready to sacrifice their lives, but just at the last moment, Obito uses
Kamui
 to send the bone aiming at Kakashi away, while he sacrifices himself.