"
Three Years
" (
3年
,
3-Nen
) is chapter 6 of the
Boruto: Two Blue Vortex
 manga.

Summary

Shikamaru
 has a meeting with
Koharu
 and
Homura
, who question him about
Boruto
's return. Shikamaru has no idea on his motives, but points out that Boruto was essential to drive
Code
 back. Homura opines that Boruto should still be eliminated, to restore
Konoha
's honour over the attempt on
Kawaki
, and to placate the
daimyō
, who are responsible for determining the village's budget. Koharu asks Shikamaru to accept the title of
Hokage
 permanently, pointing out that three years is the period he himself suggested at first, as not doing so weakens his position in the
Land of Fire
 and with the other villages. He merely says he'll report again. In his office, Shikamaru asks
Ino
 to personally deliver him old mission logs, tapping his temple. After leaving, Ino establishes
telepathic contact
, Shikamaru explaining he wants no log from the sensor team, and no way for
Ada
,
Amado
, or Kawaki to listen in, only the two of them should participate. Ino is concerned by such a violation of regulation. He has a request for her. Ada informs Kawaki on the development of the sentient
God Trees
, including that one of them is after
Naruto
.
 He questions why they'd be after Naruto, but is confident he can eliminate them.
Daemon
 points out that while no one would believe Boruto and
Sasuke
 over being criminals, if the God Trees come after Naruto, that's a thread others can pull to expose his lie about Boruto having killed Naruto. Ada admonishes Daemon. Kawaki leaves, refusing to explain himself, telling Ada to
spy
 on him if she wants to keep an eye on him. Kawaki is bothered by
Mitsuki
's watching him and Ada, who retorts it's his mission, and to complain with Shikamaru if he wishes.
Sarada
 is embarrassed by her outburst of emotion, unsure what to ask Boruto first.
Sumire
 breaks the ice. Boruto is relieved they're both ok. Sumire is worried if Boruto should linger, he explains that he's
suppressing his chakra
, so only Kawaki should eventually notice him, giving him a little time. He reveals that Sasuke was absorbed by the
Ten-Tails
. Kawaki notices Boruto's presence, Mitsuki prepares a
snake
. Boruto blames himself, as Sasuke sacrificed himself so Boruto could get away. Sumire asks why the
Claw Grime
 are attacking those who aren't
Ōtsutsuki
. Boruto explains the usual life cycle of a Ten-Tails, which only turn into God Trees upon consuming an Ōtsutsuki, but something changed. Mitsuki contacts Shikamaru about Boruto's presence, leading them to realise Boruto can erase his chakra like Kawaki. Mitsuki wants Ada to pinpoint Boruto's location. Shikamaru asks about Kawaki. Mitsuki knocked him out by having a snake bite him, pointing out that Boruto can also sense Kawaki, making him unsuitable to pursue Boruto. Boruto speculates that the reason the God Trees already evolved is because of the Claw Grimes. Code isn't an Ōtsutsuki, but his
Kāma
 is an aspect of
Isshiki
's chakra. Shikamaru contacts Boruto telepathically through Ino, telling him not to let it show. Boruto is surprised and asks why he should trust him, Shikamaru warns him he's about to have company. Mitsuki restrains him with a snake and attacks. Sasuke's
sword
 unsheathes itself, and Boruto
teleports
 to it. Sarada attempts to calm Mitsuki, but he carries on attacking. Boruto channels
Lightning Release: Purple Electricity
 through the sword, cutting through Mitsuki's ethereal
Sage Mode
 snakes. He attempts an
attack from below
, but Boruto flies out of his reach. Boruto promises Sarada to rescue everyone turned into trees and retreats, before telling her he'll be back. He complains to Shikamaru he could have made it so they could talk uninterrupted, but Shikamaru points there's only so much he can do without exposing himself. He says he wants Boruto's help, and asks if he's Boruto Uzumaki. His learning that Amado is considering his own memories were fabricated makes things make sense when flipping Boruto's and Kawaki's situations. Boruto lands outside Kawaki's sensing range, but still in Ino's communication range. Boruto tells Shikamaru he has a loose end to tie up, aware he'll have to be a bit rough with Mitsuki, who is coming after him.