"
Time Limit…!!
" (
タイムリミット…!!
,
Taimu Rimitto…!!
,
Viz:
 Time Limit!!) is chapter 48 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 manga.

Summary

Isshiki
 finishes
shrinking
 the remaining pillars at their location.
Koji
 breathes fire at him, but he harmlessly and instantaneously shrinks them as he approaches. Koji
grabs him with his hair
 and tosses him on the ground, but Isshiki shrinks and escapes. Koji tries stabbing him with his hair when Isshiki is close to him, but he evades it as well. Isshiki ponders that with the body he has, he only has two or three days of life left, and praises
Amado
's planning. He taunts Koji that Amado likely intends for
Naruto
 and
Sasuke
 to defeat him, and that means Koji's role was done the moment he forced Isshiki to resurrect in
Jigen
's body, lacking the strength to actually kill him. He'll make Koji understand he can't be a heroic ninja tool, being a sacrificial pawn instead. Koji enters
Sage Mode
. Amado goes over the terms of his asylum agreement, the limitations and obligations imposed on him.
Shikamaru
 requests that he disarms the bomb on
Shikadai
's neck, and Amado reveals it was a bluff on his part. Turning to Naruto, he stresses the hard part has yet to come. He advises them against going to fight Isshiki, as with his limited time, his priority will be to apply another
Kāma
 to
Kawaki
, so he might even ignore Naruto and Sasuke if they take the fight to him. Amado suggests evacuating
Konohagakure
 civilians. He also advises hiding Kawaki, somewhere close where Naruto and Sasuke can protect him if his location is exposed. Isshiki must be defeated before applying another Kāma to Kawaki.
 Koji keeps using
Fire Release
 jutsu, meaning to get around Isshiki's
dōjutsu
 by blocking his sight. He manages to
pin
 Isshiki between flames and an
Ultra-Big Ball Rasengan
. Isshiki produces the previously shrunk stone pillars, pinning Koji down. Koji notes his injuries as Isshiki explains the
nature
 of his jutsu. Isshiki wonders why Koji kept fighting, and offers to deliver his last words to Amado, as a courtesy of a former comrade. He approaches to hear Koji's words, but he summons a
toad
 and escapes by
reverse summoning
 it instead. Isshiki wonders what Koji intends to do and portals away, intent on finding Kawaki.
Boruto
 wants to fight Isshiki along his father, noting that both Naruto and Sasuke lost to him when he was weaker. Sasuke points out both he and Naruto have always been ready to die for Konoha, and asks if he's the same. Naruto is notified of Isshiki's arrival at Konoha.