"
Time Drawing Near
" (
迫る時
,
Semaru Toki
) is chapter 77 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 manga.

Summary

Boruto
 tries acting like
Momoshiki
 isn't around, but
Kawaki
 continues telling to come out. The commotion draws
Sarada
's and
Sumire
's attention, Sumire recalling their conversation from when he killed Boruto. Sarada stresses there should be no infighting during a
mission
, which Kawaki counters that
Ōtsutsuki
 don't care about their mission.
Daemon
 agrees while
Ada
 observes.
Shikamaru
 tells him to stand down. Kawaki assures them his gut is telling him that Momoshiki is up to something. Shikamaru tells him to recall
Naruto
's face when he saw Boruto dead, and consider what he actually needs to do. Kawaki lets go of Boruto and leaves for an errand. Shikamaru orders the
sensors
 to keep track of Kawaki, but he
erases
 his chakra signature. Boruto asks
Mitsuki
 which way Kawaki went, but he saw nothing, Boruto deducing Kawaki
shrank
 himself. Ada decides to go out as well. Shikamaru asks if Boruto can sense Kawaki like he did before. Boruto can sense Kawaki's presence, but can't pinpoint his location.
Konohamaru
 warns Mitsuki against looking for Ada. Ada is unbothered by Kawaki's departure, and asks the girls to go with her.
 She warns Boruto she doesn't want to butt heads. Boruto checks with Shikamaru, who relents and instructs Boruto to accompany her while he and the sensors try looking for Kawaki. In
Kara's Dimension
,
Bug
 drinks, uneasy about
Code
's
Claw Grime
, and regrets learning Code has created over a thousand of them. Code wishes he could launch a surprise attack on
Konoha
, but Ada being there means he has no element of surprise. Ada notifies Shikamaru of the Claw Grime, and explains Code's resentment of Kawaki, why he targets the things Kawaki loves. Ada can't decide on which clothes to buy, Sumire and Sarada agreeing she looks good in everything. Boruto feels out of place waiting on them, and Daemon teases him, finding everyone weak. He asks if there are any strong fighters, and upon feeling something, rushes outside to find
Himawari
, asking who she is. Boruto pulls him off of Himawari, who explains she's buying bread and tea their mother likes. Daemon moves to attack Himawari, but stops, confused when she braces for impact instead of dodging. Boruto explains Himawari isn't even a shinobi, and doesn't know how to fight, which leaves Daemon puzzled by the intensity he felt from her. Boruto concedes that Himawari is scary when she snaps, and immediately disapproves when he thinks Daemon has a crush on her. A
sensor
 keeps watch over Naruto's home while he and
Hinata
 prepare for dinner. Hinata wishes Boruto and Kawaki could join them, and asks how long their mission will take. Naruto think it'll be a while, as they're all stubborn, problem children. Kawaki appears, and asks them not to alert the lookouts. He wants to talk to Naruto. He reiterates how much Naruto has changed him, and how much Naruto means to him. His world revolves around Naruto, but he thinks the world is crap because of the Ōtsutsuki, and good people like Naruto are the first to die because of them. Naruto thinks it's
shinobi
's job to deal with these threats, but Kawaki disagrees, thinking they're just the first to die. Not wanting Naruto to die, Kawaki has decided to use his Ōtsutsuki powers to destroy every last Ōtsutsuki, and came here to properly inform Naruto. He confesses he felt guilty over failing to kill Boruto. Hinata slaps him, accusing him of being insane for thinking that, and he concedes only someone insane would kill their brother. He assures them he's calm and thinking straight, and that since they would never be able to do it, he'll do it even if he has to bear their hate. Naruto says Kawaki would have to kill him before killing Boruto, and asks if he could still do it. He says he's not asking them to understand, and sends them away with a
rift
. They're welcome to kill him after he's done.