This article is about episode 53 of Naruto: Shippūden. For chapter 310, see
Title
.

"
Title
" (
題名
,
Taitoru
) is episode 53 of the
Naruto: Shippūden
 anime.

Synopsis

Naruto
 asks
Sasuke
 why he stays with
Orochimaru
 when the
Sannin
 simply wants his body. Sasuke tells Naruto that both he and Orochimaru were unable to defeat
Itachi
 on their own, but if he could gain the power to kill Itachi and exact his vengeance in exchange for giving his body to Orochimaru, then that would be a price he would be willing to pay.
Yamato
 tells Naruto and
Sakura
 that out of consideration for them, he did not attempt to seriously attack Sasuke, but that he would now resort to those methods in order to bring Sasuke back to
Konoha
. Sasuke scoffs at the idea of returning to the village, telling the group that he is done with them. He drops his
sword
, inserting it into the ground, and performs hand signs to kill them all. As he activates
chakra
 on his body, Orochimaru grabs his hand and tells him not to use
that technique
. Sasuke rudely tells him to let go of his hand, and
Kabuto
 reprimands him for doing so. Kabuto tells Sasuke that
Team Kakashi
 is to be spared so that they may continue to kill off
Akatsuki
 members, and in doing so, may allow Sasuke a chance to take out Itachi. Sasuke relents, and the three
disappear in flames
.

Naruto berates himself for being weak and unable to stop Sasuke again and begins to cry. Sakura, who is also tearing up, tells Naruto not to cry as crying would not save Sasuke, and that the two of them together will continue on.
Sai
 offers to help, citing that three people would be better than two, much to Yamato's satisfaction. With their mission officially completed, the team heads back to Konoha, where they report to
Tsunade
. When Naruto tells her that his determination to save Sasuke is non-wavering, Tsunade tells the trio to return home and stay there until she assigns them a new mission. As they walk home, Naruto asks Sakura out on a date, but is rebuffed by her when she tells him that Tsunade said to go home. Sai is observing their bond from the back and attempts to create his own with them by waving goodbye, but the two disappear before he can do so.

At the
Konoha Hospital
,
Kakashi
 is surprised that the team fought Sasuke.
Jiraiya
 recaps the events of the
Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission
, including Naruto's ascension to his
four-tailed form
, his fight with Orochimaru and the team's encounter against Sasuke. After finding out that Sasuke has significantly increased in power, Kakashi sighs as he realises that Naruto will now relentlessly demand training in order to keep up. In Tsunade's office, Yamato tells her that she was right about Sai, concerning him being sent by
Danzō
 on a secret mission of his own. He tells her that Danzō sent Sai to kill Sasuke in order to rob Orochimaru of a host body. While Tsunade claims that Danzō's actions, while crafty and hardlined, were done for the benefit of the village, Yamato gives her the envelope that Danzō had instructed Sai to give to Orochimaru, which contained the personnel files of all the
Anbu
 members assigned to the
Hokage Guard Platoon
. Tsunade is outraged and orders
Shizune
 to tighten up security while seething at the idea of Danzō's coup. Meanwhile, Sai returns to the
Root
 headquarters and reports his mission failure to Danzō, who is surprised as Sai had never failed a mission before. Sai requests to keep his name and retain his position on Team Kakashi; as Tsunade had requested the same thing, Danzō reluctantly allows it, but not before noticing Sai's smile and reminding Sai that emotions need to be repressed as they lead only to anger and hatred. Sai remembers Sasuke's bitter emotions of hatred towards him and Itachi, but also remember Naruto's happy emotions regarding his brotherly bond with Sasuke. Sai decides to go with the latter, and returns home to paint a picture. However, before he can begin, Naruto calls him from outside his window. Sai looks out and sees the rest of the team there, ready to depart on another mission.

Trivia

This is the last episode of the anime to be animated in 4:3 standard definition picture format. Every episode onwards is animated in the current modern television picture format, 16:9 high definition.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Maile Flanagan
Sakura Haruno
Chie Nakamura
中村 千絵
Nakamura Chie
Kate Higgins
Sai
Satoshi Hino
日野 聡
Hino Satoshi
Benjamin Diskin
Yamato
Rikiya Koyama
小山 力也
Koyama Rikiya
Troy Baker
Orochimaru
Kujira
くじら
Kujira
Steve Blum
Kabuto Yakushi
Nobutoshi Kanna
神奈 延年
Kanna Nobutoshi
Henry Dittman
Sasuke Uchiha
Noriaki Sugiyama
杉山 紀彰
Sugiyama Noriaki
Yuri Lowenthal
Kakashi Hatake
Kazuhiko Inoue
井上 和彦
Inoue Kazuhiko
Dave Wittenberg
Shizune
Keiko Nemoto
根本 圭子
Nemoto Keiko
Megan Hollingshead
Homura Mitokado
Hikaru Miyata
宮田 光
Miyata Hikaru
Beau Billingslea
Koharu Utatane
Junko Midori
翠 準子
Midori Junko
Mary Elizabeth McGlynn
Danzō
Hiroshi Ito
糸 博
Ito Hiroshi
William Knight
Fifth Hokage: Tsunade
Masako Katsuki
勝生 真沙子
Katsuki Masako
Debi Mae West
Jiraiya
Hochu Otsuka
大塚 芳忠
Ōtsuka Hōchū
David Lodge