"
To See That Smile, Just One More Time
" (
あの笑顔をもう一度
,
Ano Egao o Mōichido
) is episode 431 of the
Naruto: Shippūden
 anime.

Summary

Karin
 gets caught in the
Infinite Tsukuyomi
. Inside her dream,
Sasuke
 calls out for the
kunoichi
 to wake up, but her only response is a request for him to smile. Several years ago, in
Kusagakure
,
Karin's mother
 is being taken away by
Zōsui
 to help with the injured, despite the woman's health condition. As Karin waits the entire night for her mother to return, Zōsui comes to pick her up, dragging her to the hospital where her
abilities
 will be used to treat the wounded. While in there, the kunoichi learns that her mother has passed away and becomes horrified of the bite marks on her body. Zōsui delivers Karin to the medical team, telling her that she must earn her stay in the village.
 Karin begs her oppressors to stop, as an injured man bites her in the hand, but to no avail. Later, when she leaves the hospital, Zōsui warns the kunoichi to come back, even if nobody comes to pick her up, after which, Karin returns home, where she starts sobbing, recollecting her bite marks. A while later, Zōsui takes her to the battlefield, where she is to treat the wounded, after which she collapses from exhaustion. Eventually, Zōsui informs the kunoichi about her being given the chance to enter the
Chūnin Exams
, with her task being to keep her team-mates replenished. In the
Forest of Death
, the two
genin
 replenish themselves by biting her, then give her the scroll for safe keeping. Karin gets attacked by a large
bear
, but is saved by Sasuke.

When she returns from the exams, Zōsui informs her about his disappointment, telling her to go to the "North Fortress", where his allies are fighting the
Kaguya Clan
. As Karin arrives, she get frightened by the amount of people she is to replenish, fearing that she will die in the process. Some time later, as Karin is attacked by two thugs, the kunoichi is saved by
Orochimaru
, who invites her to follow him. While in one of the
Sannin
's hideouts, Karin is welcomed by
Kabuto
, who asks the kunoichi to showcase her abilities to him first-hand, impressing the
medical-nin
. In the
Northern Hideout
, Kabuto informs Karin that she will be helping him out with experiments involving
Jūgo
. Some time later, Orochimaru recollects with Karin, thanking her for the help and requesting the kunoichi to be in charge of the hideout, to which she humbly accepts. While Kabuto and Karin are talking, Orochimaru and Sasuke stroll though the room, with Karin being informed of the Uchiha. An unspecified amount of time later, Sasuke kills Orochimaru, establishes "
Hebi
" and fights
Killer B
 and
Danzō
, where Karin's healing abilities are once again put to use. While in Karin's Infinite Tsukuyomi dream, Sasuke becomes the
Sixth Hokage
 and
Konohagakure
 is attacked by
Kusagakure
, with Karin being surrounded. Zōsui, who also happens to be there, orders his men to take Karin as a hostage due to her abilities, but the kunoichi is saved and is suggested to have killed Zōsui. Karin, collapsed, is called out by Sasuke, who asks her to wake up, but the kunoichi's only response is a request for him to smile. As Sasuke smiles at Karin, she smiles as well while being trapped in Infinite Tsukuyomi.

Trivia

The Kaguya clan is erroneously depicted as still around sometime after the Chūnin Exams in Part I, despite
Kimimaro
 becoming the sole survivor of the clan years beforehand.

The development of the Cursed Seal enzyme is also erroneously depicted as having been created after the Chūnin Exams, when it was previously established its creation was during the time
Anko Mitarashi
 was still affiliated with Orochimaru, and it had already been applied to Sasuke and the
Sound Five
.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Karin
Kanako Tojo
東條 加那子
Tōjō Kanako
Ali Hillis
Sasuke Uchiha
Noriaki Sugiyama
杉山 紀彰
Sugiyama Noriaki
Yuri Lowenthal
Suigetsu
Takashi Kondo
近藤 隆
Kondō Takashi
Grant George
Jūgo
Shuhei Sakaguchi
阪口 周平
Sakaguchi Shūhei
Travis Willingham
Orochimaru
Kujira
くじら
Kujira
Steve Blum
Kabuto Yakushi
Nobutoshi Kanna
神奈 延年
Kanna Nobutoshi
Travis Willingham
Zōsui
Kosuke Goto
後藤 光祐
Gotō Kōsuke
Greg Chun
Karin's Mother
Mariko Higashiuchi
東内 マリ子
Higashiuchi Mariko
Ali Hillis
Injured people
Ryuichi Kijima
Kengo Kawanishi
Yo Tokinaga
木島 隆一
河西 健吾
時永 洋
Kijima Ryūichi
Kawanishi Kengo
Tokinaga Yō
Crispin Freeman
Greg Chun
Kyle Hebert