Tobirama Senju
 (
千手扉間
,
Senju Tobirama
) was a member of the renowned
Senju clan
, who, together with his elder
brother
 and the
Uchiha clan
, founded the first shinobi village:
Konohagakure
. Throughout his lifetime, Tobirama would work tirelessly to achieve political stability and implement the institutions that made the village system work, thus ensuring Konoha's continuity and prosperity. After his brother's death, he would earn the title of
Second
Hokage
 (
二代目火影
,
Nidaime Hokage
,
literally meaning:
 Second Fire Shadow).

Background






Tobirama and his family.



Tobirama was born during the
Warring States Period
, and was the second of
Butsuma Senju
's four sons. He and his brothers grew up on the battlefield waging constant war with their rivalling clans especially the Uchiha. After the deaths of their brothers:
Kawarama
 and later
Itama
, Tobirama and his older brother,
Hashirama
, decided a new shinobi system would need to be implemented to end the cycle of child deaths — a system that would require an alliance between the warring clans.
 At some point in time, it became apparent that Hashirama got into the habit of disappearing into the forest for extended periods, and as such, Tobirama accepted his father's assignment to follow Hashirama and find out what he was doing.






Tobirama and his father fighting Izuna and Tajima.



From tracking Hashirama, Tobirama discovered that he was meeting with a boy named
Madara
: a young Uchiha. After Tobirama reported this to their father, Butsuma pressured Hashirama to lead Madara into an ambush to be carried out by himself and Tobirama. Upon springing the trap, however, they were met by Madara's family — who had similar plans and while their fathers clashed — Tobirama fought
Izuna Uchiha
: Madara's younger brother.
 Hashirama and Madara were able to negotiate a temporary ceasefire, allowing all of them to walk away without bloodshed. In the years following their families would continue to clash, Hashirama against Madara and Tobirama against Izuna. On one occasion Tobirama eventually
mortally wounded
 Izuna.






Tobirama about to kill Madara.



Hashirama, by then the leader of the Senju, tried to use Izuna's fate to broker peace between their clans, but Madara — at Izuna's behest — refused. His refusal increasingly became the minority view, with individual Uchiha siding with the Senju in growing numbers. After Izuna succumbed to his injuries, Madara, wracked with grief, made one final stand against the Senju and was summarily defeated. Tobirama attempted to kill Madara to finally end the fighting, but Hashirama stopped him, knowing that would only renew hostilities between the Senju and Uchiha. Madara offered to surrender if Hashirama would kill himself or Tobirama.
 Hashirama agreed to take his own life, and as he made preparations he instructed Tobirama, despite his protests, not to seek retribution. Madara ultimately withdrew his request and agreed to peace.

The Senju, the Uchiha, and all their affiliated clans came together to found Konoha, a village of peace where children would never need to die in battle.
 Although Hashirama was optimistic about the village's future, Tobirama remained realistic about how that future would be achieved knowing that it was not enough to simply bring all these clans together. He believed the Uchiha — Madara in particular — threatened that future. When Hashirama wanted to give Madara the position of Hokage, Tobirama forced him to open the selection to a democratic process rather than appointing a leader, leading to Hashirama's election instead.
 Tobirama would continue to act as the voice of reason throughout Hashirama's tenure; during the first
Kage Summit
, Hashirama wanted to give Konoha's
tailed beasts
 to the other newly-formed villages for free, but Tobirama insisted that the villages pay for the tailed beasts they received.






Tobirama with his students.



Under Hashirama's leadership, the new system of ninja villages achieved peace for a time. Eventually, Tobirama started training his own
three-man team
 consisting of
Hiruzen Sarutobi
,
Homura Mitokado
, and
Koharu Utatane
.
 Techniques he had created, such as the
Shadow Clone Technique
 and
Summoning: Impure World Reincarnation
, he
outlawed
, their use no longer being needed. But peace would ultimately be temporary as Madara challenged Hashirama's authority and the two fought at what would become the
Valley of the End
. When Madara was killed in the battle, Tobirama took his body in order to study the
Sharingan
, and then buried it in an unmarked grave.
 Conflicts would start emerging elsewhere in the world, and it was during one of these that Hashirama would die.
 Before his death, he passed the title of Hokage to Tobirama and left him instructions to not mistreat the Uchiha.

Tobirama's role as Hokage included helping Konoha's shinobi transition from valuing their
clan
 above all else to valuing the village and everyone in it.
 To this end he created such institutions as the
Academy
, the
Anbu
, and the
Chūnin Exams
. While largely successful, enough that other villages adopted the same organisations,
 the Uchiha resisted the loss of their autonomy. Already wary of the Uchiha because of his history with Madara, Tobirama created the
Konoha Military Police Force
 for the Uchiha to run, publicly as a sign of trust but primarily so that the Uchiha could focus their energies into something beneficial. Others, however, would come to see this as a way to marginalise the clan.






Tobirama and his team during the First Shinobi World War.



Like Hashirama before him, Tobirama tried to foster good relations with the other villages. He planned an alliance between Konoha and
Kumogakure
, but during a formal ceremony he and the
Second Raikage
 were attacked by the
Gold and Silver Brothers
 and left near death.
 During the
First Shinobi World War
, Team Tobirama, as well as
Danzō Shimura
,
Torifu Akimichi
, and
Kagami Uchiha
 found themselves surrounded by Kumo's
Kinkaku Force
. With no way for all of them to escape, Tobirama volunteered to act as a decoy in place of Hiruzen. As he departed, he passed the title of Hokage to Hiruzen,
 before being killed by
Kinkaku
.

Personality

Tobirama was a stern man who spoke bluntly about most topics, never sugar-coating facts or the matter at hand. He had a pragmatic approach to life, believing that many of the world's problems could be solved through well-defined rules and laws.
 Though his words could often come off as rude or insensitive, Tobirama himself was relatively calm and composed, rarely getting riled up or reacting emotionally. It was this that allowed him to act as a sort of counter-weight to his older brother,
Hashirama
's ideals, when Hashirama would get carried away with his headstrong optimism, it fell to Tobirama to mediate and force a more realistic alternative in order to achieve those idealistic goals. Hashirama was typically disappointed by Tobirama's intervention, but he usually agreed without much protest.
 But Hashirama would, at times, push back against Tobirama, often because Tobirama's methods were becoming too forceful; Hashirama's rare displays of anger on such occasions were enough to make Tobirama back down.
 Despite how often he needed to undermine his brother and his personal opinion that Hashirama was something of an idiot,
 Tobirama greatly loved and respected him, and if anything wanted Hashirama to respect himself the same way he and others did.






Tobirama enraged by a threat to destroy Konoha.



Tobirama was a firm believer in the
Will of Fire
 — a philosophy that held that all villagers of Konoha were part of a family. As Hokage, it was Tobirama's responsibility to protect that family, and any who threatened Konoha were subject to his rarely-seen but unbridled rage.
 He modelled his own leadership after both Hashirama and
Madara Uchiha
, trying to strike a balance between Hashirama's indulgent nature and Madara's ruthlessness in order to protect the village. Tobirama wished for the villagers, with their disparate backgrounds, to move away from the tendency to only think about their
clan
 and instead think of the village as a whole.
 It was for this reason that he came into conflict with the
Uchiha
 so frequently, as he felt they too often valued their own desires over others'; he believed Madara was the worst example of this tendency.
 Although Tobirama truly hoped that the
Konoha Military Police Force
 would help the Uchiha focus on the village, he was not surprised when they instead took it as an intentional slight, when that in turn led them to plan a coup against Konoha, and when the planned coup brought about their near-extinction. Despite this distrust against the Uchiha,
 Tobirama was ready to cooperate with any clan member that could overcome their "
Curse of Hatred
"; he cited
Kagami Uchiha
 as a prime example of such an Uchiha.

Though they only knew each other for a short time, Tobirama and
Minato Namikaze
, the Fourth Hokage, got along superbly. Their mutual respect for each other seemed founded on their similarities: both of them famously moving and thinking quickly on the battlefield.
 While their actual personalities were quite different, Tobirama was nevertheless amused by Minato's quirks, such as his complicated names for techniques, notably the "
Spiralling Flash Super Round Dance Howl Style Three
".
 With Minato's son,
Naruto Uzumaki
, Tobirama was more frustrated than anything else: Naruto did not address him with the proper honourifics and failed to recognise him as the creator of certain
jutsu
, such as the
Flying Thunder God Technique
, which Naruto instead believed to be Minato's creation.

Appearance

Tobirama as a child.
Tobirama in adulthood.
1/2

Tobirama was a fair-skinned man with silver, shaggy hair and dark-coloured eyes (depicted as red in the anime). He had three red markings on his face, one under each of his eyes and one on his chin. In combat, he wore blue armour with a distinctive white fur collar over a simple black suit. This armour was constructed from numerous metal plates, formed into multiple protective guards along his body. Beneath his shoulder armour he wore two extra shoulder guards on each arm. This clothing was accompanied by sandals and a
happuri
 in place of the more traditional
forehead protector
. The happuri was initially engraved with the Senju's emblem, which was later replaced with Konoha's.

In his official Hokage portrait, Tobirama was seen wearing the usual all-white haori with a blue kimono underneath.
 His casual outfit was a simple, short-sleeved, blue shirt kimono with mesh armour underneath and held closed by a pale yellow sash. This casual attire included blue pants and a bracelet of sorts on his left hand.

As a child, he wore a pair of pin-striped pants and shirt which left his arms exposed. He also did not have the markings on his face.
 In battle, his armour was constructed from green metal plates that covered his torso, lower behind, and groin alongside fishnet armour around his wrists and shins.

Abilities






Tobirama defeating Izuna.



Tobirama was renowned as one of the most powerful shinobi in history, earning praise from even his rivals.
 He was able to kill
Izuna Uchiha
 — Madara Uchiha's brother and equal in both skills and power.

Danzō Shimura
 stated that Tobirama's prowess was unmatched during his time as Hokage.
 He was able to survive an ambush from the
Gold and Silver Brothers
 — a fearsome duo that were able to fully demonstrate the power of the
Treasured Tools of the Sage of Six Paths
, which is said to surpass the
Five Kage
  along with the
Nine-Tails
's chakra that allowed them to enter
version 1 and 2 forms
.

Chakra and Physical Prowess

During his lifetime, Tobirama was hailed as the fastest shinobi. When
reincarnated
 without his full power, he was capable of moving fast enough to cover
Obito Uchiha
 who had just become the
Ten-Tails
'
Jinchūriki
 with
explosive tags
, as well as mark him for his Space–Time Ninjutsu all unnoticed.
 His reflexes were equally impressive as his
Shadow Clone
 was able to grab a
Truth-Seeking Ball
 mid detonation and teleport it back on Obito before it could explode.
 In the anime, Tobirama is shown moving equally quickly while underwater.
 He was adept enough in taijutsu to compete against his former student, Hiruzen, who is known for his absolute mastery of all shinobi skills.

His chakra reserves were large enough to teleport two
Tailed Beast Mode
 users simultaneously,
 and strong enough to visibly affect the surrounding terrain when releasing it.
 His chakra control was advanced enough to perform complex techniques with only one
hand seal
.
 His will was also so strong that nearly-perfected
Impure World Reincarnation
 required enhancements from Hashirama's cells to control him.

Ninjutsu






Tobirama using his invented Shadow Clone Technique.



As a Senju, Tobirama was skilled in a variety of
ninjutsu
 forms. This included
shurikenjutsu
 and

barrier ninjutsu
.
 He was highly skilled in
Kenjutsu
, which allowed him to clash with Izuna on multiple occasions, and in the anime, even mastered wielding the
Sword of the Thunder God
, a blade with electrical abilities.
 Developing a variety of ninjutsu, his creations all share the quality of eliminating the need for allies to risk their lives while also weakening the enemy efficiently.
 This is reflected in his creation of the
Shadow Clone Technique
, which could aid him in battle to perform actions while he was otherwise preoccupied.

Since childhood, Tobirama was an adept
sensor
.
 By
touching the ground
 with his finger, he could accurately detect the presence and location of targets in the surrounding area.
 He could also sense persons countries away,
 identify a target's ancestry from their chakra signature,
 and even pinpoint a target's exact location while blinded.

In the anime, Tobirama was shown to be able to cast
genjutsu
 to lock a target in
perpetual darkness
 that even
Hiruzen Sarutobi
 could not dispel.
 He also mentioned that he had the ability to send his soul to help a dying Sasuke, and would have, had he not been immobilised by Madara's
black receivers
.

Nature Transformation






Tobirama using a powerful Water Release technique without a pre-existing water source.



Tobirama was able to use all five basic
nature transformations
, along with
Yin
 and
Yang Release
.
 He excelled at
Water Release
 and was able to create vast quantities of the substance without a present water source enabling him to use high-level Water Release techniques at any given time.
 He was renowned for his ability to create
tsunamis
 to flood the battlefield.
 He was able to form
defensive walls
 or
large water dragons
 with a single
Hand Seal
 each and without a pre-existing water source.
 He could also shoot high-pressured streams from his mouth
to slice through targets
,
 or high velocity
needle-shaped projectiles
 to catch an opponent off-guard while attacking their vital points.
 In the anime, he could shape water into
tendrils
 to pull targets down with him to drown them.
 While not shown he was also capable of forming a large concentrated
water lance
 with tremendous piercing power and attack range.

Space–Time Ninjutsu






Tobirama teleports behind Obito.



Tobirama's skill with various
space–time ninjutsu
 is well-remembered.
 Using the
Flying Thunder God Technique
, he could instantly teleport himself and/or other targets to any location marked with his seal or connected to his chakra. Connecting his chakra with others has also allowed Tobirama to monitor a battlefield using their chakra as a source for his technique. When this chakra is
shared
 among many individuals, he can teleport any number of people away from harm.
 Should he connect his chakra to other users of the technique, Tobirama can make use of their Flying Thunder God seals.
 By using a marked area or throwing a marked kunai, with precise timing, he could move around an area quickly and strike at the most opportune moment
before his opponent could react
.

Summoning

Tobirama was especially proficient in
Summoning Techniques
.
 His most infamous technique was the
Summoning: Impure World Reincarnation
, which returned the souls of the dead into immortal, regenerating bodies.
 Tobirama employed this technique to revive fallen enemies on the battlefield, either to extract information or to have them walk back into their own lines and carry out
kamikaze
-style attacks using the
Mutually Multiplying Explosive Tags
,
 another technique he invented which took advantage of the revived bodies' regeneration to create near-infinite chains of explosions.
 He was said to use it whenever he needed to clear a map.
 Tobirama labelled it a
kinjutsu
 in hopes it wouldn't be used by anyone again.
 It was implied that he never fully-refined this technique as he could only control a small number of reincarnated bodies at once
 and whose power was limited compared to themselves while alive,
 both of which other shinobi would improve upon in the future.

Intelligence

Tobirama was highly intelligent, serving as the strategic leader of his clan during the
Warring States Period
 and later as the Hokage’s aide following the establishment of
Konohagakure
. His political acumen strengthened Konoha’s diplomacy and tempered his brother’s idealism, providing the stability necessary for the village’s growth.
 During his time, he created systems such as the
Academy
, the
Anbu
, and the
Chūnin Exams
 that were so successful, that other villages adopted the same organisations,

His innovative mind also extended to
Ninjutsu
, having created numerous original and advanced techniques, including the
Impure World Reincarnation
,
Flying Thunder God Technique
, and
Shadow Clone Technique
. These techniques were designed to efficiently weaken opponents while minimizing the risks faced by his allies during wartime.

In battle, he was calculating, striking only when he's confident of success and without any thought of mercy.
 He was known for launching surprise attacks on opponents who think they've won and have let their guard down. In order to capitalise on every possible advantage, he pays careful attention to every aspect of a battle, analysing his opponents' strategies and techniques to discern their purpose, mechanics, and ultimately their weaknesses. He also analysed his comrade's abilities to create counterattacks, using strategies that made maximum use of the techniques he created. He was similarly knowledgeable of skills he has no training in, being able to recognise a toad from
Mount Myōboku
 and their
senjutsu
 or different types of advanced
nature transformations
.

Part I

Konoha Crush

Main article:
Konoha Crush






Orochimaru summons Hashirama and Tobirama.



Orochimaru

invades Konoha
 so that he can kill his master,
Hiruzen Sarutobi
. Because Orochimaru wants Hiruzen to experience the same thrill of fighting a teacher as he is, he reincarnates
Hashirama
 and Tobirama. Recognising Hiruzen and seeing how old he has gotten, Hashirama realises how long he's been dead. Tobirama, meanwhile, realises that they've been brought back with the
Impure World Reincarnation
, and therefore will have no choice but to fight Hiruzen. Orochimaru suppresses their personalities and forces them to attack.






Hiruzen's clone removes Tobirama's soul.



Hiruzen struggles to land an attack against Hashirama and Tobirama, their coordination and responsiveness offering him few openings. The few attacks he does land are merely regenerated by their reincarnated bodies. Because killing Orochimaru will not end the Impure World Reincarnation, Hiruzen uses the only option he has left: after creating two
shadow clones
, he has a clone capture each of the deceased Hokage and use the
Dead Demon Consuming Seal
 on them. With their personalities restored, Hashirama and Tobirama apologise for being such troubles to him, just as Hiruzen apologises for the fate he has sentenced them to. He pulls the souls from their reincarnated bodies, feeding them to the
Shinigami
.

Part II

Fourth Shinobi World War: Climax

Main article:
Fourth Shinobi World War: Climax






The four Hokage are reincarnated.



At the request of
Sasuke Uchiha
,
Orochimaru
 releases the souls of the first four
Hokage
 from the stomach of the Shinigami and then reincarnates them. After taking in their surroundings, Hashirama and Tobirama are excited to meet
Minato
, the Fourth, and take him as a sign of
Konoha
's continued prosperity. When Tobirama scolds Orochimaru for his repeated use of the Impure World Reincarnation, Orochimaru instead blames Tobirama for creating it in the first place. He also blames Tobirama for a number of his other actions as Hokage, such as the
Konoha Military Police Force
 that helped foster Uchiha dissent.






Hashirama stops Tobirama from attacking.



Hashirama reprimands Tobirama for not honouring his instructions to treat the Uchiha fairly. When Sasuke threatens to destroy Konoha, Tobirama feels validated in his treatment of the Uchiha and prepares to attack Sasuke, but Hashirama forces him to stop. When they are told of
Madara Uchiha
's reincarnation and participation in the ongoing
Fourth Shinobi World War
, Tobirama cannot be reasoned with and only Orochimaru's refined control of the Impure World Reincarnation stops him. Tobirama is forced to standby and listen as Hashirama explains his personal experiences with Madara and the Uchiha, and adds some of his own experiences after Hashirama's story ends. From listening to the four Hokage, Sasuke decides he doesn't want Konoha to be destroyed, as is Madara's current intention. Orochimaru releases the Hokage from his control so that they can help in this goal, and they set out for the site of the
Allied Shinobi Forces
' battle with the
Ten-Tails
.






The Hokage arrive on the battlefield.



Tobirama arrives on the battlefield shortly after Minato and compliments his speed. Once all the Hokage gather, they combine efforts to erect a
barrier
 around the Ten-Tails to confine it. Tobirama must stay with the barrier in order to keep it active, so he watches as Sasuke and the Allies attack the Ten-Tails. When
Obito Uchiha
 appears on the battlefield and prepares to
revive
 Madara, Tobirama creates two
shadow clones
 to go after Madara. Minato once again beats him to the punch, cutting down Obito before Madara can be revived.

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Main article:
Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki






Tobirama attacks a restrained Obito.



Not only was Madara's revival not his intention, but Minato's attack was too late: Obito seals the Ten-Tails into himself, becoming its
jinchūriki
. With his new power, Obito rips down the barrier, allowing the Hokage to finally join the fray. While trying to decide how to proceed, Obito cuts through Tobirama and one of Hashirama's
wood clones
. While the clone restrains Obito, Tobirama tells everyone else to evacuate the area while he uses
Mutually Multiplying Explosive Tags
. The attack has no effect, and Hiruzen and Minato engage Obito while Tobirama regenerates. Once restored, he sends a shadow clone to redirect a
Truth-Seeking Ball
 that's been attached to Minato back to Obito, having earlier branded him with a
Flying Thunder God
 seal.






Tobirama teleports Naruto above Obito.



Tobirama, Minato, Sasuke, and
Naruto Uzumaki
 coordinate efforts to attack Obito with
Flying Thunder God Mutually Instantaneous Revolving Technique
, but Obito emerges without damage. What's more, from observing that Minato has not regenerated an arm lost to Obito, Tobirama theorises that Obito's Truth-Seeking Balls can nullify the advantages of the Impure World Reincarnation and all other ninjutsu. In a blind gamble,
Gamakichi
 attacks Obito with the
Starch Syrup Gun
, which actually seems to have some success. Tobirama and Naruto separately realise that Obito is vulnerable to
senjutsu
. After Naruto enters
Sage Mode
, Tobirama teleports him above Obito so that he can attack.






Tobirama attacks the God Tree's roots.



With a weakness discovered, Obito traps the Alliance within a
barrier
 so that he can wipe them out with multiple
Tailed Beast Balls
. Tobirama and Minato decide that they can't teleport all the balls away in time, but Naruto comes up with a way for him and Minato to teleport the entire Alliance to safety. Impressed by their combined efforts, Tobirama assists them after they enter
Tailed Beast Modes
 by teleporting them to Obito for another attack. Obito blocks it this time and counters by creating the Ten-Tails' tree form. The tree's roots start tearing through the Allies and, after fending off some of the roots, Tobirama teleports Naruto, Sasuke, Minato, and Hiruzen together to figure out a new plan. Naruto and Sasuke, with Hashirama's encouragement, lead the Alliance in their attack while Tobirama busies himself with teleporting shinobi to safety when they need it.






Tobirama battling Madara.



Although Obito is defeated and the Ten-Tails is removed from his body, Madara is successfully restored to life. While Madara prepares to become the Ten-Tails' next jinchūriki, Tobirama launches a desperate attack to stop him. Madara pins him with multiple
black receivers
 and they share their mutual contempt for each other. Using what little mobility he has, Tobirama attacks him with
Heavenly Weeping
 to distract Madara while Sasuke attacks him from behind. Madara blocks the attack and, over Tobirama's pleas to stop, mortally wounds Sasuke. Madara leaves and Tobirama can only watch as Sasuke's life fades. Shortly afterwards,
Kabuto Yakushi
 arrives in time to save Sasuke. Once he's well, Sasuke removes the black receivers from Tobirama's body and has him teleport him to Naruto's location to face Madara.

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Main article:
Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes






Tobirama's soul departs to the Pure Land.



Despite their efforts, Sasuke and Naruto cannot stop Madara from initiating the
Infinite Tsukuyomi
. Tobirama and the other Hokage, being the only ones unaffected, converge at the location of a powerful chakra signature, but find only Madara's lower half. Tobirama contemplates using the Impure World Reincarnation on Madara to ask him what happened, but they are stopped by the
Sage of the Six Paths
. Combining efforts with the spirits of the other dead
Kage
, they summon
Team 7
, Madara, and the
tailed beasts
 back from
Kaguya's dimension
. Madara, dying, has some parting words with Hashirama, after which the Sage returns all the Kage to the
Pure Land
. As his soul ascends, Tobirama encourages Hashirama to entrust the future with Sasuke and Naruto.

Legacy

Although Tobirama created the
Konoha Military Police Force
 with the intention of pacifying the
Uchiha clan
, it only exacerbated their feelings of marginalisation and, in effect, cut them off from positions of influence in
Konoha
. Dissatisfaction with Konoha grew amongst the Uchiha for decades following, eventually culminating in the
Uchiha Clan Downfall
.

Tobirama would also be responsible in creating several vital institutions for Konoha such as the Academy, the Anbu, and the Chūnin Exams which would help Konoha bond many of the clans together to fight for Konoha and would also help Konoha foster relationships with the other villages. These institutions were so successful that other villages began implementing their own versions of them in their own nations.

His invention of the
kinjutsu

Summoning: Impure World Reincarnation
 would play a major role in the
Fourth Shinobi World War
 and ironically would allow Tobirama as well as the other deceased Hokage the ability to assist the
Allied Shinobi Forces
 in the war after they were reincarnated by Orochimaru at the behest of Sasuke Uchiha. The reincarnated
Madara Uchiha
 himself begrudgingly admitted he was thankful to Tobirama for inventing the technique while fighting the reincarnated
Hashirama Senju
.

In Other Media

Video Games

Tobirama Senju is a playable character in the following video games:

Game name
Japanese release
English release
Jumputi Heroes
28 March 2018
Naruto Mobile
2016
2016
Naruto Shippūden: Ninja Destiny 2
24 April 2008
15 September 2009
Naruto Shippūden: Ninja Destiny 3
28 April 2009
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja 4
5 April 2007
24 March 2009
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja 5
20 December 2007
27 November 2009
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Blazing
14 July 2016
24 August 2016
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 3
18 April 2013
5 March 2013
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 4
4 February 2016
9 February 2016
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm Generations
23 February 2012
13 March 2012
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm Revolution
11 September 2014
16 September 2014
Naruto to Boruto: Shinobi Striker
30 August 2018
31 August 2018
Naruto x Boruto: Ninja Voltage
22 November 2017
22 November 2017
Naruto x Boruto: Ultimate Ninja Storm Connections
16 November 2023
17 November 2023
Naruto: Shinobi Collection
2014
Naruto: Shinobi Collection Shippū Ranbu
27 July 2015
Naruto: Ultimate Ninja 3
22 December 2005
25 March 2008
Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Online
14 April 2013
20 July 2016

He is also featured as a support-only character in
Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Storm
.

Trivia

Springtime of Youth

The
Springtime of Youth
 wiki
 has an article about this topic:

Tobirama Senju

"Tobirama" (
扉間
) means "the space between two doors". "Doors" (
扉
,
tobira
) are seen as the access to progress and improvement.

Tobirama's face appears within the fireworks in the ending
omake
 of
Shippūden
 episode 129
.

Studio Pierrot's Settei sheets of Tobirama show that he was 140 cm around the time Hashirama met Madara.

Tobirama is the only Hokage never to be shown wearing the hat of office.

According to the databook(s):

His favourite words were "Mind – technique – body" (
心・技・体
,
Shin – gi – tai
).

His favourite food were the fresh fish caught in the clean rivers of Konoha.

Quotes

(To
Hashirama
 and
Itama
) "
Grown-ups are idiots. If they really want to bring an end to this endless fighting, they need to sit down with one another and reach a truce…
"

(To
Hiruzen
) "
Saru, you must protect those who have faith in you and who love the village, and train up to those to whom you can entrust the next generation… from tomorrow, you will be the Hokage…!
"

(To
Sasuke
) "
My brother believed that the village was something that demolish the boundaries between clans. Well in the end it wasn't that simple… My brother was too soft… and Madara too dangerous… My role as Second Hokage was to mediate between them while protecting and reinforcing the village.
"

(About
Naruto
) "
That settles it, I've actually found a bigger idiot than my brother.
"

References