Tonbee
 (
遁兵衛
,
English TV:
 Tonbei) is a member of the
Tsuchigumo Clan
 who was left to guard the sacred
fortress
 of his clan.

Personality

Tonbee is a very calm and collected man with a great sense of duty as well as respect. This was witnessed in his willingness to sacrifice himself to allow
Hotaru
 to escape to safety as well as his unwillingness to abandon the fortress where he was stationed.

Appearance

He is an elderly man with short grey hair, a bristling moustache and dark eyes. He wears a simple, v-neck, long-sleeved shirt with a sleeveless coat, a pair of pants and sandals.

Abilities

Though not much has been shown of Tonbee's skills, he is seemingly very proficient with trap-setting, using
very sophisticated traps
 that made use of seals, which may mean he is also very proficient with
seal-related techniques
. He was also seemingly confident enough in his abilities that he remained behind to hold off a group of mercenaries to allow Hotaru to escape. He has also displayed the ability to
summon

bats
.

Part II

Six-Tails Unleashed

Main article:
Six-Tails Unleashed

When
Mount Katsuragi
 was attacked by a group of ninja, Tonbee sent a messenger bird to contact
Konohagakure
 for help and had Hotaru take the
Tsuchigumo Clan's kinjutsu
 to their village. Tonbee told
Utakata
 to protect Hotaru. Tonbee confronted
Akaboshi
 and his group where they easily defeat him. They questioned Tonbee of the kinjutsu's location only to discover Hotaru has it and they headed off searching for her.
Team 7
 came across Tonbee badly injured.
Sakura
 stayed with Tonbee while the rest of the team looked for Hotaru.

Later after his wounds were treated by Sakura, Tonbee woke up with dismay upon learning that
Naruto
 knew the truth about Hotaru that her grandfather embedded the kinjutsu on her back. After Hotaru explained how she asked for it to help restore the clan's honour, Tonbee regretfully admitted he feared the clan will never regain their former status in the world. Feeling that it would be better to destroy the clan's kinjutsu, Tonbee revealed a way to safely remove it from Hotaru's body.

After Team Yamato stopped the ninja bandits and saved Hotaru, Tonbee returned to the Tsuchigumo village where he thanked them for all they've done and bid them farewell.

Trivia

A man bearing a striking resemblance to Tonbee appears in the
Labyrinth Game Arc
 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime as one of the people kidnapped for
Ōga
's experiments.