"
Tree
" (
木
,
Ki
) is chapter 2 of the
Boruto: Two Blue Vortex
 manga.

Summary

Code
 is surprised by how fast
Boruto
 reappeared, regretting not attacking
Konoha
 sooner. Boruto threatens him to withdraw the
Claw Grime
, Code incredulous at that, believing it to be a bluff, recalling how Boruto fled two years prior. Boruto remains resolute, assuring Code he'll lose more than just his left eye this time. Boruto asks
Sarada
 to help the rest of the civilians, promising to talk later.
Shikadai

paralyses
 three grimes for
Chōchō
 to
attack
. Another one
emerges
 behind her, but
Inojin
 catches it, arriving on an
ink bird
 with
Himawari
. The grime slashes the bird's left wing with its tail, causing it to lose balance and toss Himawari off, the grime attempting to bite her.
Kawaki
 arrives flying, yelling at Inojin and Himawari to get out of the way, attacking the grime. Inojin catches Himawari. On the ground, the grime opens a
Rinnegan
, interested in Kawaki. Himawari thanks Kawaki, who berates her for calling him big brother despite his requests not to. Shikadai finds the grime stronger than the rest. It jumps between grimes to slam Kawaki at the ground from behind, referring to him as an
Ōtsutsuki
.
 Shikadai paralyses it, and Kawaki activates his
Kāma
, angry at the Ōtsutsuki appellation and blasts the grime. Shikadai is concerned as more grime arrive, Kawaki determined to destroy them no matter their numbers. Boruto effortlessly
cuts down
 six grimes surrounding him, somewhat validating his threat in Code's eyes. He is unconcerned with the grimes, their numbers so great, and considering them mere tools. Boruto doesn't think Code understands the horrors of the
Ten-Tails
. Sarada defeats more grimes with
Fire Release: Great Fireball Technique
 and
Chidori
. Other Konoha shinobi wonder if she's really a
genin
, but she thinks ranks don't matter. Another grime attacks her from behind, attempting to bite her, but
Soegi
 blocks it, being bitten instead. The grime turns into a tree, growing around and consuming Soegi. The same happens with another bitten shinobi. Code is aware that the Ten-Tails attempt to bite anyone on instinct, until they eat an Ōtsutsuki to turn into a
God Tree
. Boruto adds that Code's meddling with them changed that, telling him to scrap them while he can still control them, otherwise the worst possible future will come for everyone. Code is undeterred, as his goal lies beyond the future of a dead planet through the consumption of a chakra fruit. Boruto once again offers to spare Code in exchange for guiding him to where the Ten-Tails main body is. He believes that killing Code is easy, and is offering him a chance not to die in vain. Code finds Boruto to be insane, certain he's the one who'll die. Boruto prepares to attack. Code thinks he recognises Boruto's
Rasengan
, finding him a one-trick pony, but the swirling begins to
envelop
 Boruto instead of just forming in his hand.