This article is about the episode.  For other uses, see
True Identity (disambiguation)
.

"
True Identity
" (
正体
,
Shōtai
) is episode 213 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Amado
 and the
Konoha
 shinobi watch the projection of
Koji
 and
Jigen
 from Amado's glasses. Koji questions why task him with retrieving
Kawaki
 when Jigen could do so by
teleporting to his location
. Jigen doesn't find it odd to send someone to do what he could at any time. He adds that the timing of Kawaki's move was intentional on his part to uncover a traitor. Koji claims they discovered
Victor
 as the traitor, but Jigen thinks he was used as a cover by the real traitors, that Koji would never make a move without Amado's say, and that they crashed the airship. Kawaki is incredulous those two are responsible for his freedom. Jigen wants to know Koji's and Amado's motives, as all Inners agreed to acquire the chakra fruit. Jigen evades Koji's attack and pierces him, but it's only a
shadow clone
. Koji claims he was created to destroy him. Amado explains that Jigen was severely drained by his fight against
Naruto
 and
Sasuke
, giving them a rare opportunity to take him down, and that they only pretended to follow Jigen. Jigen considers Koji a mere tool to be used by Amado, but Koji is fine with it and attacks him with
Fire Release
.
 Jigen absorbs his attacks with his
Kāma
, allowing Koji to position himself behind him and
cover him in oil
. Jigen notices several
toads
 on himself, which ignite, burning more intensely because of the oil. Naruto finds Koji's fighting style familiar. The burning knocks the toad transmitting the fight down, but Amado assures them it'll resume shortly. He continues to explain that rather than being an
Ōtsutsuki
, Jigen became one. He explains the Ōtsutsuki nature of arriving on a planet and consuming everything in it by planting a
God Tree
, which grows a chakra fruit containing all the chakra and genetic information of a planet, which is how the Ōtsutsuki evolve. They recall that Victor's plan involved creating a chakra fruit as well. Jigen absorbs the flames on him, and wonders about Koji's motives. He surmises that Koji wanted to learn more about the Kāma, and upon discovering that
Boruto
 also had one, found it advantageous to let Konoha have Kawaki. Amado asks if Sasuke has been to the place of the coordinates he planted in the airship, so they could know about the
Ten-Tails
 in advance. Kawaki has limited knowledge on it, so Boruto explains the role it had during the war. Amado explains that Ten-Tails are what the Ōtsutsuki plant to grow God Trees.
Sai
 wonders if Jigen is the Ōtsutsuki wanting to consume the planet this time, but Sasuke says it's the person who marked Jigen with a Kāma.
Chōchō
 and
Inojin
 watch over
Shikadai
, hopeful that Naruto will solve the issue. Based on Amado's words, Sasuke determines that Jigen became an Ōtsutsuki through the Kāma. Jigen avoids an attack of Koji's by
shrinking in size
 and pierces his shadow clone. Koji addresses Jigen as
Isshiki Ōtsutsuki
. Amado explains that Isshiki arrived with
Kaguya
, but was betrayed by her, and only survived by taking over Jigen's body, a novice monk. Sasuke asks if that's when he branded Jigen with a Kāma take him over. Amado confirms his asylum deal with Naruto before continuing, which Naruto agrees to, but Shikadai's bomb will remain until he has it in writing. Using Boruto and
Momoshiki
 as examples, Amado explains that the Kāma functions as a highly compressed Ōtsutsuki backup file, slowly turning the host until they cease to exist and the Ōtsutsuki is reborn. Naruto demanded if there a way to stop the process Amado state to his knowledge there isn't any but believe that Momoshiki's ressurection can be stop by killing Boruto. Sasuke asks what happens to the Kāma, and Amado answered it disappears upon full decompression. Sasuke points the inconsistency of Jigen still bearing a Kāma. Amado chuckles, angering
Shikamaru
. Amado continues, and explains that while Isshiki did take over Jigen, he didn't do it with a Kāma, having been too weak after Kaguya's betrayal to make one. He shrunk himself with his jutsu, and physically took over Jigen, like a parasite, and only later branded him with a Kāma. Fighting Koji, Jigen activates his Kāma, expanding it and growing Isshiki's horn. Koji
creates a swamp
 to hold Jigen in place. Naruto asks why Isshiki hasn't resurrected in Jigen with the Kāma, and Amado explains that the selection of the proper vessel is of utmost importance. Jigen can't bear Isshiki's chakra, and if the revival were to happen, he'd expire within days, so he chose to prepare a proper vessel in Kawaki. The battle transmission resumes. Jigen breaks free of the swamp by shrinking, and sends rods at Koji, who dodges them. Koji retracts the swamp, revealing summoning seals. He uses them to summon flames that Jigen can't absorb. Amado explains that Isshiki will be unstoppable if revived through Kawaki, and while Ōtsutsuki can transcend death as long as they have Kāma, but there are methods of killing them, which he will teach.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Kawaki
Yuma Uchida
内田 雄馬
Uchida Yūma
Inojin Yamanaka
Atsushi Abe
阿部 敦
Abe Atsushi
Chōchō Akimichi
Ryoko Shiraishi
白石 涼子
Shiraishi Ryōko
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Sasuke Uchiha
Noriaki Sugiyama
杉山 紀彰
Sugiyama Noriaki
Shikamaru Nara
Shotaro Morikubo
森久保 祥太郎
Morikubo Shōtarō
Sai Yamanaka
Satoshi Hino
日野 聡
Hino Satoshi
Katasuke Tōno
Taira Kikumoto
菊本 平
Kikumoto Taira
Sumire Kakei
Aya Endo
遠藤 綾
Endō Aya
Amado
Akio Otsuka
大塚 明夫
Ōtsuka Akio
Koji Kashin
Yuichi Nakamura
中村 悠一
Nakamura Yūichi
Jigen
Kenjiro Tsuda
津田 健次郎
Tsuda Kenjirō