"
True Power
" (
本気
,
Gachi
) is chapter 11 of the
Boruto: Two Blue Vortex
 manga.

Summary

Though attributing
Himawari
's power to
Kurama
's chakra,
Jura
 remains intrigued.
Shikadai
 notices she can walk fine, her leg healed. Himawari removes
Inojin
 from the
tree
 with her hair, healing his injury as she places him down. She isn't sure if he healed right, and tells the others to take Inojin to a medic. Shikadai and
Chōchō
 ask about her power, but she isn't sure about that as well, intending to take Jura down. Chōchō doesn't want to leave Himawari behind, but Shikadai agrees with her assessment, earning Jura's praise. Himawari agrees with Chōchō that she's not comfortable fighting alone, but feels that what her
father
 and brother would do. Chōchō holds her to a promise of trying a new pancake house later, and leaves with her team. Jura remains puzzled by what influences their decision-making. He wonders how what Inojin did might have sparked the power in Himawari, who punches him quite a distance. He flies up in the air, charging up a
Tailed Beast Ball
 in response to Himawari's.
Team 10
 notices the explosion. Jura is curious about her rapid development, and begins putting a bit of effort in the fight, inspired by her power.
Sarada
 believes
Hidari
's wound to be fatal, and offers to ease his suffering in exchange for telling her about himself and how he can use
Chidori
.
 Hidari moves through
Claw Marks
, emerging healed. He asks if her eyes are
Sharingan
, recalling that Jura told him about them, realising those are required for his attack to be properly controlled.
Konohamaru
 asks what his connection to
Sasuke
 is, but Jura doesn't know, clarifying he came to
Konoha
 to learn who he is.
Sumire
 yells to everyone that his target is Sarada. Putting his hand through his cloak, he strikes Sarada with
Lightning Release
 through a Claw Mark. One of the shinobi attempts to attack with an
Earth Release
, but Hidari burns him with
Fire Release
. Konohamaru attempts a
Rasengan
, but Hidari slips behind him through another mark. Konohamaru blocks his Chidori with a
Wind Release barrier
 of his own. Hidari knocks Sumire out as she tries to help Sarada, who remains paralysed by the Lightning Release. Jura has the upper hand against Himawari, noting that her regeneration ability is closer to a
tailed beasts
' than that a
jinchūriki
's.
Kurama
 begrudgingly admits they're outmatched.
Kawaki
 and
Delta
 are flying on route, Delta asking him what he thinks he can do when Jura already outclassed him.
Boruto
 overtakes them, rescuing Himawari. Hidari doesn't know who he is, but has some awareness of Sarada, and wants to consume her to learn who he is, and begins turning his arm into wood to encase her. She notices a
toad
. Another confirms Sarada's position to Boruto, who
teleports
 with Himawari to her location. He cuts through Hidari's arm. The God Trees are annoyed by Boruto, referring to him as an
Ōtsutsuki
.