Truth-Seeking Balls
 are orbs of malleable black
chakra
, which can alter their form and characteristics in various ways. Though only the size of a fist, each hides within it the power to obliterate an entire forest.

Acquisition

Those who awaken
Six Paths Senjutsu
 are able to wield Truth-Seeking Balls.

Hagoromo
 and
Hamura Ōtsutsuki
 appear to have possessed this power naturally,
 whereas others may obtain it by
becoming
 the
jinchūriki
 of the
Ten-Tails
, or by receiving it directly from Hagoromo. Entering
Tenseigan Chakra Mode
 also grants the user Truth-Seeking Balls.

The number of Truth-Seeking Balls acquired varies from user to user. Acquisition method may determine the number, as both
Obito Uchiha
 and
Madara Uchiha
 gained ten orbs upon becoming the Ten-Tails' jinchūriki; Obito initially only formed two,
 obtaining the other eight upon gaining control of the Ten-Tails' power.
 Upon receiving power from Hagoromo,
Naruto Uzumaki
, instead gained nine orbs,
 while
Asura Ōtsutsuki
 only showed five orbs,
 nine orbs in the anime.

Toneri Ōtsutsuki
 is depicted with an inconsistent amount.
 Due to having previously been the Ten-Tails' jinchūriki,
 Obito was able to manifest a single Truth-Seeking Ball after
absorbing
 some of Madara's
power
.

Usage

When not in use, Truth-Seeking Balls generally float behind the user's back in a circular formation, though two of Obito's float behind his hands,
 Hagoromo's float beneath him while levitating,
 and Hamura's instead form a sigmoidal formation.
 The orbs are always on standby once created,
 and users cannot create additional orbs after the initial acquisition number; thus, orbs that are lost for whatever reason cannot be replaced. In Naruto's case, the orbs currently under his control disappear and reappear alongside his
chakra cloak
,
 while the orbs he has discarded remain active.

Clones
 are not created with orbs of their own,
 though the user can temporarily transfer them to a clone.

Truth-Seeking Balls encompass the power of all five basic
natures
,
 and as such they surpass both
kekkei genkai
 and
kekkei tōta
.
 By combining the various natures inside the orbs, it is possible to produce a variety of effects.
 They are capable of instantly turning anything they touch to dust in a manner similar to
Dust Release
,
 though this does not always occur.
 If imbued with a certain
Yin–Yang Release

jutsu
, the orbs can nullify any
ninjutsu
 they touch and thus become impervious to it; this includes negating the regenerative qualities of
Impure World Reincarnation
, making it possible to permanently damage and kill those reincarnated by the technique.
 However, the orbs are incapable of nullifying
senjutsu
,
 as according to Naruto,
natural energy
 can be used to combat itself.

Naruto can use Truth-Seeking Balls to create his
Tailed Beast Ball Rasenshuriken
.
 Similarly, Obito was able to convert one of his orbs into
black receivers
, allowing him to use the
Six Red Yang Formation
.
 While in their default sphere form, the orbs can be launched as high-speed projectiles,
 expanded to enormous sizes in an instant.
 Whatever their shape, users can only control the orbs within 70 metres of their location, allowing opponents to disable them by
transporting
 them elsewhere.
 If the user is killed or similarly incapacitated, their Truth-Seeking Balls will disintegrate alongside any black receivers they created.

Shape Transformation

Truth-Seeking Balls can be controlled individually or combined together; in both cases, by understanding the power of "all things in nature" (
森羅万象
,
Shinra Banshō
), the orbs can be
shaped
 into a variety of forms. Because the high-density chakra is in a condensed state, it can be pulled and stretched into a smooth and flat consistency, as well as freely manipulated into any other shape.

Hiruzen Sarutobi
 theorised that there is a limit to how long the orbs can maintain a certain shape,
 though this was never confirmed. Most users are able to reshape their Truth-Seeking Balls without any special effort,
 though Obito does so by passing them through holes that temporarily form in his hands.
 The orbs can also wrap around the user's body to form a protective shell.
 Though highly durable, this defence can still be broken by attacks that cannot be nullified, such as powerful senjutsu and
taijutsu
.

Stretched around the user as a defence.
A weapon with adjustable length and thickness, called a "Truth-Seeking Umbrella" (
求道傘
,
Gudōkasa
) in
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Blazing
.
The
Sword of Nunoboko
 (left hand) and a shield (right hand).
Converted into
black receivers
.
Used similar to
chakra arms
.
Reshaped to serve as a platform.
Obito's
shakujō
.
Madara's shakujō.
Naruto's "Six Paths
Bō
" (
六道の棒
,
Rikudō no Bō
).

Tenseigan Influence






Toneri's Truth-Seeking Ball infused with Tenseigan chakra.



While in Tenseigan Chakra Mode, Toneri could enhance his Truth-Seeking Balls by infusing them with glowing green chakra. Rather than simple black constructs, Toneri demonstrated the ability to transform one of these glowing orbs into an ornate golden cage. He could also combine them to create a
massive vortex
 capable of blasting through the
moon
's surface and a
giant sword
 capable of cutting the entire moon in half.

Trivia

The term Truth-Seeker (
求道
,
Kyūdō; Gudō
) comes from
Mahāyāna Buddhism
. The kanji 求 means
to wish for
, while the Way (
道
,
Dō
) in Mahāyāna doctrine is to find the ultimate truth within one's own mind.

If the Truth-Seeking Balls contain natural energy, users should not be able to add ninjutsu-negating Yin–Yang Release to them, as natural energy is precisely what causes other jutsu to become immune to erasure.

Although they can nullify ninjutsu, the orbs can still be teleported away partly or wholly by
Space–Time Ninjutsu
.

Despite stating that the orbs are wielded by Six Paths Senjutsu users, the
fourth databook
 does not classify this technique as senjutsu.

In
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 4
 and
Jump Force
, Truth-Seeking Balls give off a purple glow. In the former, Obito employs the orbs in several unique ways, such as forming scythes, drills, spinning disks, hands capable of firing Tailed Beast Balls and blasts of chakra.

Despite repeatedly accessing his orbs every time he entered Six Paths Sage Mode during the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, Naruto has not been seen accessing them since whenever using said form.

In
Naruto: Shinobi Collection Shippū Ranbu
, Obito has a technique called "Truth-Seeking Ball: Trailokya Extinction" (
求道玉・三界死滅
,
Gudōdama: Sangai Shimetsu
), in which he combines his Truth-Seeking Balls into a single expanding orb that obliterates the surrounding area. The technique refers to the
Trailokya
, the three realms of karmic rebirth in Buddhist cosmology.

See Also

Red Orbs

References