While on the
Moon
, the
Ōtsutsuki Clan
 managed to develop a myriad of
puppets
 that would most commonly be used to service their everyday needs, all without the use of chakra threads. Despite being used for mostly mundane tasks, these puppets were outfitted with considerable potential for war, as shown during
Toneri Ōtsutsuki
's invasion of
Konohagakure
. Operating autonomously, the puppet master is not required to concentrate while leaving them to particular tasks. While using the clan's
energy vessel
 within the moon, Toneri was able to simultaneously control hundreds of puppets at once. Both Toneri and later
Urashiki Ōtsutsuki
 were also able to link their vision to the puppets under their control. Perfect for distractions, the puppets can be made to take on realistic appearances to look like the user and can be used for ranged communication. Uniquely, Toneri also commanded puppets in the form of birds that could fly at high speeds, thus aiding in aerial combat.

The common variant of the puppets are able to store and weaponise chakra. Most commonly, the puppets can cause massive amounts of damage by creating orbs of chakra that explode on contact and can be rapidly fired. These orbs can grow to larger sizes to cause larger explosions. These puppets also boast noticeable capabilities in hand-to-hand combat. Stronger variants are able to form their chakra into
swords
, further increasing lethality in combat. The puppets possess  incredible strength, enough to crater the ground, the ability to extend their limbs, can levitate, and can wield hidden weaponry.

While coordinating their efforts, only a few were capable of overwhelming the
Hyūga Clan
 patriarch,
Hiashi Hyūga
, and two of his clan members. They were also capable of forcing a puppet master like
Kankurō
 to resort to a suicide attempt in order to defeat them. Having a high degree of durability, the puppet were mostly intact despite enduring a point-blank explosion. The stronger variant was able to survive this explosion and was able to keep fighting, despite losing some versatility in its functions.

Urashiki employed a few of these puppets in an attempt of acquiring Shukaku, all of them were destroyed through the efforts of Konoha and Suna shinobi.
Victor
 sent
Deepa
 in an attempted to retrieve the remains of the last puppet to use in his research, but the remains were completely destroyed by
Shinki
.

Kankurō studied these puppets in order to improve upon his own Puppet Technique by manipulating them with imperceptibly thin chakra threads. Although this only creates the illusion of autonomous operation, he also increased the controls over them without the need of hand gestures, as well as the control range.

References