The cult's headquarters.



This
Ōtsutsuki Cult
 (
大筒木教
,
Ōtsutsuki-kyō
)
 was a congregation founded and led by
Boro
 from
Kara
, who over years recruited and manipulated people from all over to join under him as a
Saviour
 spreading the praise of the
Ōtsutsuki clan
 as Gods who will save the world and unite them under the
Infinite Tsukuyomi
.

Overview

According to cultists, during the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, Boro experienced the miracle of the Infinite Tsukuyomi, leading him to viewing it as a
jutsu
 meant to save people. Making his way to a land, Boro formed a congregation, with its headquarters constructed so Boro could welcome the gods. The structure had a chapel and an auditorium, where Boro gave enlightening sermons. Using a machine in a secret room within the lower levels of the headquarters, Boro created
viruses
, so he could save people with the vaccine he created. The room also contained a
Space-Time Gate
. The land where the main headquarters is located is outside the jurisdiction of the
Five Great Shinobi Countries
, thus preventing them from investigating openly.





The congregation arrives at a village.



Boro would spread his virus under the guise of a plague in towns and villages, before making his presence publicly known and curing them.
 Many of the believers who joined him had ran away from their homes, and thought of each other as family, as well as viewing Boro as responsible for everything they now had.
 He taught his congregation that salvation could be achieved through the Infinite Tsukuyomi, framed the Five Great Shinobi Countries as evil for murdering several of those
Gods
, and that he received an
indestructible body
 from a 'God" he met.

With the goal of gathering potential vessels for
Isshiki Ōtsutsuki
, Boro chose
Kagari
 and many other believers to be test subjects for experiments under the deception that they will be in service over three years and meet directly with the gods. After leaving, the congregation lost contact with them all over time. A file documented the data from the experiments, with it listing all the subjects as deceased.

After Boro's death,
Konoha
 sent
Konohamaru
 and
Sai
 to investigate the main branch of the cult in hopes of extracting more information on Kara. There, they revealed Boro's death to the cultists, his deception and experimentation on unwitting members. However, the members were so deeply brainwashed that they denied any wrongdoing of their "saviour", and even when
Delta
 arrived to destroy the entire main base of the organisation to disconnect any links back to Kara, they remained in the collapsing building, believing that Boro would save them as they perished. The facility was almost entirely destroyed, and those who survived were left traumatised and mentally broken by the revelations.

Following this, a single secret base on the edge of the
Land of Snow
 remained, known only to a small number of high ranking members of the cult and overseen by
Bug
, an acquaintance of
Code
.
 This particular facility was used to conduct inhumane rituals, human experimentation, and secret
Scientific Ninja Tool
 research and development, as well as the disposal of cyborgs that
Jigen
 deemed a threat to his authority, though Boro secretly kept several alive and hidden there. Code later raided this facility and threatened Bug in order to secure the cooperation of two such cyborgs,
Ada
 and
Daemon
, and used it as a base of operations for his mission to avenge Isshiki. While investigating Code's network of
Claw Marks
,
Sasuke Uchiha
 eventually uncovered intel on its location and the identity of its caretaker, surmising that Code was likely using it as his hideout.

References