The
Ōtsutsuki Clan
 (
大筒木一族
,
Ōtsutsuki Ichizoku
) is an ancient clan of horned humanoid creatures known as
celestial beings
 (
天津人
,
amatsubito
),
 and also described as
aliens
 (
宇宙人
,
uchūjin
) from another planet,
 and revered as equivalent to gods.
 As a parasitic species, they have spent thousands of years traversing through the cosmos in order to carry out the
Ōtsutsuki Will
 (
大筒木の意志
,
Ōtsutsuki no Ishi
), a doctrine which dictates that clan members consume the life energy and genetic material of other worlds in order to continuously evolve, with the ultimate goal of attaining godhood.

After the arrival of
Kaguya
 on
Earth
 a millennium ago, the Ōtsutsuki began having a lasting influence on the human population, notably starting the history of
shinobi
.

Overview

For countless eons, the Ōtsutsuki Clan has been travelling throughout dimensions seeking out worlds to plant
Ten-Tail saplings
 into. Once planted, they grow into a
God Tree
 with their roots spreading across the planet to siphon
chakra
 and genetic material from all its surroundings and inhabitants, resulting in everything dying and it bearing a large
fruit
 for the Ōtsutsuki to consume in order for them to evolve, gaining power and longevity. Once harvested, as they no longer need the planet, they move to another to repeat the process.
 In order for the Ten-Tails seeds to bloom into a God Tree, a living Ōtsutsuki must be fed to the beast, hence the clan members travel in pairs, with the lower ranking being the sacrifice, while the other one watches over the fruit's cultivation. However, the Ōtsutsuki to be sacrificed utilise a
Kāma
 to prepare a vessel beforehand in order to resurrect themselves.

History

Long ago,
Shibai
, after reviving himself multiple times using the Kāma and undergoing several cycles of evolution, managed to achieve godhood with powers unrivalled.
 He eventually abandoned his physical body, and ascended to a higher plane of reality.






Kaguya's amassed White Zetsu army.



A millennium ago, Kaguya and
Isshiki
 were chosen to cultivate the God Tree on the planet Earth and harvest its
chakra
 fruit,
 with Kaguya intended to be the sacrifice to the
Ten-Tails
 sapling.
 Instead, Kaguya desired to take the chakra fruit for herself, betraying Isshiki in the process whom she left for dead. In desperation, Isshiki used his
Sukunahikona
 to reduce his body's size and infiltrate the body of a monk named
Jigen
, taking over his body through parasitic means.
 Meanwhile, Kaguya would slowly developed an attachment for the planet she meant to destroy and even fall in love with a human named
Tenji
,
 only to consume the chakra fruit herself and used its godlike power to end the constant war of Earth's human population with the
Infinite Tsukuyomi
, resulting in world peace and her being initially viewed as a benevolent deity.
 Foreseeing the consequences of consuming the Chakra fruit against her clan's wishes, she converted the imprisoned victims of the Infinite Tsukuyomi into a
White Zetsu Army
 in fear of her clan returning to take her chakra — an act which led to humans viewing her as a demon and the Ōtsutsuki condemning her as a traitor.

In time Kaguya gave birth to twin sons:
Hagoromo
 and
Hamura
, both of whom were born with chakra of their own. Afterwards, Kaguya eventually found herself ruled by her own desire to possess all chakra, in which made her turn against her own sons. Having devised a plan to absorb their chakra, she integrated with the Earth's God Tree and became the Ten-Tails. The monster terrorised the world until Hagoromo and Hamura sealed it with their
Six Paths — Chibaku Tensei
, thus creating the
Moon
. The Ten-Tails' chakra was sealed into Hagoromo while its husk, the
Demonic Statue of the Outer Path
, was hidden away and sealed on the Moon, in order to prevent the Ten-Tails' revival. Before being sealed, Kaguya
created
 a parasitic lifeform containing her will,
Black Zetsu
 to find a way to revive her. Leaving leadership of the clan to Hamura, he decreed that the clan would stand guard over the Demonic Statue.
 Hagoromo and his brother's direct bloodline stayed on Earth, the latter which inherited the
Byakugan
 and became the
Hyūga clan
, while Hamura migrated the clan to the moon, maintaining order and stability with the power of his
Tenseigan
.

Believing chakra was a power that linked everything in the world, Hagoromo set out to
spread
 the message to the people of the land, during which his teachings became known as
ninshū
.
 Towards the end of his life, he
divided
 his chakra into the nine
tailed beasts
, his way of ensuring that the Ten-Tails and thus Kaguya would never be reborn. Before he died, he passed over his eldest son,
Indra
, and entrusted his mission of peace to his youngest son,
Asura
. Black Zetsu manipulated Indra's jealousy toward Asura, resulting in the two brothers' confrontation being passed on to their descendants by the pair being reincarnated. Having spent the remainder of his life overlooking Earth, Hamura entrusted his Ōtsutsuki clansmen with a celestial degree watching over humanity before his passing. Afterwards, the people of the moon treated Hamura's Tenseigan as a treasure, enshrining it as a
religious object
 and devoting a plan to eternally preserve it with the Byakugan of newborn members taken and put into the vessel to power it.






The Moon's main family defeated by the branch family.



The millennium that passed involved the Moon's branch family misinterpreting Hamura's celestial decree, leading to them believing he wanted his descendants to destroy Earth in the event the world Hagoromo fashioned lead astray. The main family warred against the branch family over their different interpretations and eventually annihilated the former using the weaponized
Tenseigan
. On Earth, humans along with the Ōtsutsuki Clan's descendants such as the
Senju
,
Uzumaki
,
Uchiha
,
Hyūga
, and
Kaguya Clan
 utilised Indra's invention of
ninjutsu
 to shape the
shinobi
 world.

A thousand years after the Ten-Tails' defeat, the Moon's branch family dwindled to only
Toneri
, who was aware that the Demonic Statue was stolen and the Ten-Tails was revived during the
Fourth Shinobi World War
. The event ultimately lead to Kaguya being temporarily revived, but was soon sealed along with Black Zetsu in another
dimension
 by the
reincarnations
 of
Asura
 and
Indra
. Two years later, as his clan had concluded that Earth's shinobi will destroy the world's peace and order, Toneri deemed Hagoromo's world a failure, and began to act on Hamura's mistranslated celestial decree. Unable to reach an agreement with the
Hyūga Clan
, Toneri resorted to kidnapping the clan's
heir
 and taking her Byakugan in order to awaken the Tenseigan. The act caught the attention of
Konohagakure
, leading to the
Hanabi Rescue Team
 discovering his intentions and defeating him. After becoming aware of Hamura's true decree, he vowed to remain in self-imposed exile on the Moon in order to stand vigil over the Earth as a solitary guardian.






Momoshiki and Kinshiki harvesting fruits of God Trees.



Years later during the Seventh Hokage's era,
Momoshiki
 and
Kinshiki
 in
another world
 became aware of the abnormalities in Kaguya's world, prompting them to inform their clan and investigate the situation.
 They were dispatched by the main family to investigate Kaguya's whereabouts, alongside
Urashiki
.
 Although they weren't aware of Kaguya or her
chakra's
 fate,
 by Urashiki's account, they saw everything including the
Byakugan Princess

incident
 on the Moon.
 They deemed Kaguya a disgrace and traitor for growing an attachment to Earth and taking up arms against their clan.
 By the time Momoshiki and Kinshiki were defeated, Konoha had discovered four separate Ōtsutsuki clan ruins during their investigation of the clan.
 Sometime afterwards, Konoha had discovered the clan's time-travelling artefact
Karasuki
, which Urashiki took in a final bid at stealing the
Nine-Tails
' chakra from the past, only for him to meet his end.

In the meanwhile, Jigen as Isshiki's vessel managed to acquire
a juvenile Ten-Tails
, planning to use it together with
Kara
 as a seed for the new God Tree on Earth.
 Originally, Isshiki was planning to feed himself via Jigen to this Ten-Tails for it to bloom into the God Tree, due to Kaguya's betrayal and sealing leaving him with no other option, despite the resulting Chakra Fruit being much lower quality due to Isshiki's fatal injury;
Kawaki
 was then to serve as the vessel for Isshiki's resurrection.
 Due to the time limit of Isshiki's current vessel's body degrading and his Kāma not fully extracted into Kawaki, Kara's plans were on a tight schedule, but were allowed more flexibility due to the revelation of Momoshiki obtaining a vessel of his own,
Boruto Uzumaki
, before dying.
 Realising Boruto will be revived as Momoshiki, Isshiki shifted his plans to using the boy instead of himself as a sacrifice for the Ten-Tails, which would produce a much more powerful God Tree and Chakra Fruit.
 Isshiki's plans ultimately ended in failure as he was betrayed by his subordinates
Amado Sanzu
 and
Koji Kashin
, and Kawaki freeing himself as the vessel, which led to Isshiki's demise. Momoshiki, having taken over much of Boruto's being, saw Isshiki's death as a benefit to him.

Despite Kawaki having lost the Kāma, he still had 80% of its biological data extracted into his body, causing Momoshiki to deem him close to a full Ōtsutsuki, and thus a viable sacrifice for the Ten-Tails. However, Boruto managed to regain control of his own body before Momoshiki could take Kawaki to the beast. Soon after, Isshiki's expiring soul appeared before his loyal servant and failed vessel,
Code
, and bade him use his White Kāma to transform into an Ōtsutsuki and carry on the Ōtsutsuki Will. Code agreed to do so after first getting revenge on those who killed his master.

When Code confronted both Kawaki and Boruto, it resulted in the former attempting to kill the latter in hopes of stopping Momoshiki from returning to life. However, Momoshiki sacrificed the remaining 18% of the Kāma to save Boruto from death, in order to teether his own soul to the world of living at the cost of his resurrection. Despite the Kāma's 18% information having been converted to Boruto's DNA, it has been fully decompressed, meaning Boruto has successfully become a full Celestial Being, and therefore, a viable sacrifice for Code.

Appearance






The celestial beings' appearances.



Members of the original Ōtsutsuki Clan's main family all possess pale white or grey skin, blank white/lavender pupilless eyes in the form of the
Byakugan
, either pale blue or white hair, and, most notably, a variety of differently-shaped horns which are also used as personal identifiers within the clan. As a result of their propensity to evolve by consuming chakra fruit, the Ōtsutsuki may also display unique biological traits such as extra eyes and various
dōjutsu
. Their biology is close enough to humans to be able to procreate with them, and human/celestial being hybrids have similar horns. However, they are less pronounced and generally appear to be the same colour as their skin.

Members of the clan typically dress in white noble's finery, often embroidered with magatama designs, shave their eyebrows into circular
maro
 patterns that denote their nobility, and style their hair in ways that incorporate distinct zig-zag patterns.

Abilities






The ultimate power of the Ōtsutsuki, achieving the status of a God via chakra consumption and evolution.



Described as a race of alien parasites by Amado, the Ōtsutsuki Clan evolves off the energy and genetic information that served as nutrients of the
Chakra Fruits
 when absorbed by their respective
God Trees
, giving them their godlike power and longevity by ingesting it. Some Ōtsutsuki can even transform upon consuming enough chakra or particular forms of power, and may also obtain unique dōjutsu.
Momoshiki
 claims that the Ōtsutsuki's greatest skill is their ability to use chakra; a feat previously reserved for them before
Hagoromo
 introduced it to humanity through the concept of
ninshū
. With it, they can perform feats like flight or
concealing
 their presence.

During the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, those with the Ten-Tails' chakra and even Kaguya herself became impervious to almost every
shinobi
 skill, and it is only by using Hagoromo's
Six Paths chakra
 that she was ultimately defeated. Ōtsutsuki seem to remain unprecedentedly resilient even after they die: Hagoromo's soul lives on through his chakra, which itself travels through time so that he might help solve some of the issues that lingered after his death; Hamura's soul manifested before
Hinata Hyūga
 for a similar purpose, giving her the means of stopping his descendant Toneri from destroying the Earth; Indra and Asura's
chakra
 are
repeatedly reborn
 in their descendants so that they can try to settle their age-old competition; Momoshiki's spirit remained intact for a while even after his body was destroyed and was able to say his last words to Boruto and implant a Kāma into him.

The Ōtsutsuki's resilience is extended further through the
Kāma
 seal. It is bestowed by a member of the clan before their death to the fitting or the only available individuals. As a result, the person becomes the Ōtsutsuki's vessel (
器
,
utsuwa
), preserving their genetic profile within the seal. The Kāma grants its recipient chakra absorbing abilities and other unique skills of the Ōtsutsuki, although its prime function is the actual resurrection of the Ōtsutsuki in question. In time, the Kāma will rewrite their body with the Ōtsutsuki's genetic data, transforming the wielder into the deceased Ōtsutsuki who can sometimes manifest their will and possess the vessel's body. Ultimately, all the data will be extracted into the host, erasing their personality and leading to the Ōtsutsuki's revival in a new body while retaining the host's memories, knowledge and skills. However, not every person is a "perfect" vessel for the Ōtsutsuki, while the incompatible one is not able to handle the Ōtsutsuki's power properly, which will lead to their death in several days if such a vessel is used for the revival. In the event that a candidate for a vessel fails, they may be given a White Kāma instead, which grants them the pure power of the Ōtsutsuki but has no capacity in revival, nor can it allow them to absorb chakra or use
space-time ninjutsu
. Such bearers could even become an Ōtsutsuki themselves if they consume a chakra fruit.






The clan's main dōjutsu, the Byakugan.



All Ōtsutsuki have possessed at least one
inborn
 skill, the
Byakugan
 being the most prevalent with the potential of awakening the
Tenseigan
; Kaguya has a
predecessor ability
 of the
Shikotsumyaku
; Urashiki and Momoshiki both have the
Rinnegan
.
Several

other

dōjutsu
 are known from their clan. Another ability in the anime was the
Wood Release
 as seen by Asura.

An ability of the Ōtsutsuki is to move through dimensions with the
Yomotsu Hirasaka
 technique, though it requires an enormous amount of energy even for them.
 They were able to colonise the Moon by creating the
Tenseigan
, which they further strengthened over the centuries by storing their Byakugan within it. From the Tenseigan, they receive light, a habitable environment for themselves and other flora and fauna, power for their equipment, and the ability to control the Moon's movements. They can also remotely control their
puppets
 with but a thought, a far more advanced precursor of Earth shinobi's
Puppet Technique
. When they were alive, Hagoromo and Hamura each used different
seals
 to grant or restrict chakra, some of which persist or are rediscovered long after their deaths.

Ōtsutsuki are immune to
Ada
's artificial
Omnipotence
.

Trivia

"Ōtsutsuki" (
大筒木
) roughly means "big bamboo tree" and is derived from an obscure passage in the second volume of the
Kojiki
 about the genealogies of
Emperor Suinin
, the eleventh emperor of Japan, which states that he had a consort named Kaguyahime no Mikoto (
迦具夜比売命
), the daughter of a king named Ōtsutsukitarine no Miko (
大筒木垂根王
); tradition holds that these individuals served as the basis for Princess Kaguya and the old bamboo cutter in
The Tale of the Bamboo Cutter
.

Due to the fact that members of this clan are considered and even revered as gods, it can be said that they are partially inspired by the Imperial House of Japan. In Shinto, there is a belief that the Imperial House of Japan are descended from the kami, especially the sun goddess, Amaterasu. In addition, many powerful and historical clans of Japan such as the Fujiwara, Minamoto and Tokugawa originated as cadet branches of the Imperial Household, similarly to the Uchiha, Uzumaki, Senju, Kaguya and Hyūga being descendants from the Ōtsutsuki.

The horns sported by members of the Ōtsutsuki clan are meant to symbolise rabbit ears, denoting a connection to the moon by evoking the
moon rabbit
, with Kaguya even being known as the "Rabbit Goddess" (
卯の女神
,
Usagi no Megami
) to her followers. The trend continued with Momoshiki and Kinshiki via their
chakra pills
, based on the
cinnabar elixir
 that the moon rabbit is depicted using a mortar and pestle to create in Chinese folklore.

During the clan's civil war, the main and branch families used different
emblems
 to set each other apart: the main family used an eight-pointed sun ray, while the branch family used a crescent moon and a sun.






The clan symbol used on Earth.



On Earth, several clan ruins and
Karasuki
 have a pattern etched into them, which in the case of Karasuki, indicate that it may be some sort of sealing device.

The Ōtsutsuki clansmen on the Moon donned ceremonial kimonos (with various decorations from the back) with sash tied over the right shoulder and shinobi sandals. In battle, they donned a turban, a mask over the lower-half of their face, a white vest, purple sash, purple pants and a purple long-sleeve shirt with bandages over their arms and feet, and additionally using long robes for commander level.

Hinata Hyūga
 is referred to by the entire Ōtsutsuki Clan as the "Byakugan Princess" (
白眼の姫
,
Byakugan no Hime
,
literally meaning:
 White Eye Princess). The reason for the title is not explained, but by having it, Hinata is immune to Toneri's chakra drain and she is the only individual who can destroy the Tenseigan.

The clothes
Toneri
 and Hinata wore during their wedding ceremony were traditional wedding attires of the clan.

Passing bread from a groom's mouth to his bride's mouth is part of the clan's wedding ritual.

Momoshiki claimed that the transferal of power is the law of the Ōtsutsuki clan, enforcing his act of killing Kinshiki to strengthen himself.

Based on discoveries in an Ōtsutsuki-related site,
Sasuke Uchiha
 postulated they arrived in new worlds in pairs. Amado later confirmed this as one serves as a sacrifice for the Ten-Tails as the other watches over the blossoming God Tree.

Due to their actions of going from planet to planet in order to harvest chakra until it's nothing more than a husk, and forcibly transforming others into perfect copies of themselves, especially when they are on the verge of death and want to preserve their life, Amado has referred to the clan as parasites.

Boro
, a subordinate to Isshiki, formed a
cult
 that was dedicated to worshipping the Ōtsutsuki as benevolent gods and saviours of humanity. He claimed to have received an
indestructible body
 from one of such gods, and that the
Five Great Shinobi Countries
 were evil for killing several clan members.

References