"
Twilight
" (
黄昏
,
Tasogare
) is episode 126 of the
Naruto: Shippūden
 anime.

Synopsis

Jiraiya
 arrives in
Tsunade
's office and tells the
Hokage
 that he has managed to locate
Pain
, the leader of the
Akatsuki
. Tsunade decides to mobilise an attack unit until Jiraiya reminds her that they should not be hasty, and offers to discuss the situation over a drink. Elsewhere, the
Eight Man Squad
 follow
Kiba
's sense of smell towards
Sasuke
, who is sleeping off his injuries.
Karin
, who was sent to fetch supplies,
senses
 the
chakra
 of both the
shinobi
 and their
ninken
 and warns Sasuke. Sasuke orders
Hebi
 to move out, claiming that the sheer number of forces would indicate that it is a
Konoha
 unit and not the Akatsuki, as the latter move in two-man teams. As Sasuke and
Suigetsu
 head out, Karin asks
Jūgo
 to tie pieces of Sasuke's clothing to birds in order to disperse his scent, making it harder for the ninken to track him.

Over a bottle of sake, Jiraiya tells Tsunade that Pain lives in
Amegakure
, an isolated hidden village wedged between the Lands of
Earth
,
Wind
 and
Fire
, a place often used as a battleground by the three nations, thus creating numerous refugees. Jiraiya tells Tsunade that due to the isolated nature of the village, many nations do not know that a civil war transpired within Ame and that one half of the village is run by Pain himself. Tsunade worries over Jiraiya going alone, as she deems that Pain must be strong in order to be the leader of formidably powerful individuals that are members of the Akatsuki; Jiraiya, however, reminds her that he is one of the Three Legendary
Sannin
 and that he is more than capable of going alone. Tsunade reminds Jiraiya how their sensei, the
Third Hokage
, had wanted Jiraiya to succeed him as the Fourth only for Jiraiya to refuse, and how Jiraiya felt despair after being unable to prevent Orochimaru's decline into darkness, hence why he had monitored his old teammate's activities for years. Jiraiya replies spitefully that he does not need to worry about that anymore and Tsunade muses on how she never thought Orochimaru would die. Jiraiya recalls the past all three shared, how Tsunade went from a flat-chested girl to a woman with a full bosom, and how they've both grown old despite Tsunade holding all the memories of her loved ones inside of her ample bosom, causing Tsunade to blush.

In the woods, Kiba tells the group that Sasuke's scent has dispersed, causing Naruto to use his
Multiple Shadow Clone Technique
 in an attempt to spread out and find Sasuke. He ends up finding
Itachi
, who tells Naruto that he merely wishes to talk. When Naruto refuses to listen and attempts to attack him, Itachi uses his
Demonic Illusion: Mirage Crow
 to place him within a
genjutsu
. As the genjutsu fades, Itachi leaves; the rest of the team find Naruto shortly after, who hides his encounter from them.

Meanwhile, Sasuke manages to reach one of the Akatsuki hideouts that Jūgo had found, telling Hebi to stay outside while he checks it out. Back in Konoha, Jiraiya is prepared to leave when Tsunade tells Jiraiya to summon her if things get bad. Jiraiya reminds Tsunade that she cannot leave the village as she is Hokage, only for Tsunade to retort that Kakashi could succeed her and eventually Naruto as well. Jiraiya laughs at Tsunade's high hopes for Naruto, knowing that her hope comes from the fact that he shares the same dream as her
brother
 and
lover
 and is the only one of the three who did not die. Tsunade retorts that Jiraiya has the very same expectations for Naruto, having taught him the
Rasengan
. Jiraiya explains that he only did it for nostalgic purposes as Naruto reminds him of his student
Minato Namikaze
, who became the Fourth Hokage. Tsunade muses how Naruto reminds her of his father Minato due to their looks, but that his personality is more akin to his mother
Kushina Uzumaki
, a
kunoichi
 from
Uzushiogakure
. Jiraiya reveals that while he never had children, he thinks of Minato as a son he could be proud of, and Naruto as his grandson by extension.

Jiraiya decides the time for his departure has arrived, and Tsunade tearfully tells him to return back to her safely, as she does not wish to lose him. Jiraiya asks whether she would cry for him and seems as if he was about to confess love for her, only to laugh it off as Tsunade blushes. Due to her bad luck at winning, he tells her to gamble everything on his death so that her bad luck may keep him safe. As he sets off, he reminds her to be wary of
Root
, which she acknowledges. Jiraiya then leaves the village as Tsunade watches, tears streaming down her face.

Trivia

Naruto's parents are revealed to be Minato Namikaze and Kushina Uzumaki, the former being Konoha's
Fourth Hokage
.

The
manga
 did not depict Tsunade crying as she watched Jiraiya leave the village as shown in this episode.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Maile Flanagan
Sakura Haruno
Chie Nakamura
中村 千絵
Nakamura Chie
Kate Higgins
Kiba Inuzuka
Kosuke Toriumi
鳥海 浩輔
Toriumi Kōsuke
Kyle Hebert
Kakashi Hatake
Kazuhiko Inoue
井上 和彦
Inoue Kazuhiko
Dave Wittenberg
Sasuke Uchiha
Noriaki Sugiyama
杉山 紀彰
Sugiyama Noriaki
Yuri Lowenthal
Suigetsu
Takashi Kondo
近藤 隆
Kondō Takashi
Grant George
Jūgo
Shuhei Sakaguchi
阪口 周平
Sakaguchi Shūhei
Travis Willingham
Karin
Kanako Tojo
東條 加那子
Tōjō Kanako
Ali Hillis
Itachi Uchiha
Hideo Ishikawa
石川 英郎
Ishikawa Hideo
Crispin Freeman
Jiraiya
Hochu Otsuka
大塚 芳忠
Ōtsuka Hōchū
David Lodge
Fifth Hokage: Tsunade
Masako Katsuki
勝生 真沙子
Katsuki Masako
Debi Mae West
Shizune
Keiko Nemoto
根本 圭子
Nemoto Keiko
Megan Hollingshead
Nawaki
Yumiko Kobayashi
小林 由美子
Kobayashi Yumiko
Brianne Brozey
Dan
Takuma Suzuki
鈴木 琢磨
Suzuki Takuma
Roger Craig Smith