This article is about chapter 544. For episode 283 of Naruto: Shippūden, see
Two Suns!!
.

"
Two Suns!!
" (
二つの太陽!!
,
Futatsu no Taiyō!!
) is chapter 544 of the original
Naruto
 manga.

Summary

At the
Allied Shinobi Forces HQ
,
Shikaku
 continues to search for a strategy to counter the
White Zetsu
. Elsewhere,
A
 marvels that his words gave
B
 the strength he needed to surpass him. B states that while a
jinchūriki
 might fall into the trap of losing hope and becoming "hollow", as long as they have something to fight for, they can overcome the
tailed beast
 within and retain their sense of humanity — a light to follow. He refers to these lights as "suns", stating that A is his sun, and Naruto has two "suns" — his
mother
 and his
father
. Naruto explains to
Tsunade
 and the Raikage how he met his parents and how they believed that he could overcome the
Nine-Tails
. He also mentions the "masked man", whom A guesses is
Tobi
. Tsunade marvels at Minato's foresight in perceiving Tobi as that big a threat, and consequently sealing the Nine-Tails inside Naruto. The Raikage asks if Minato, the "Saviour of this World", left everything to Naruto. Naruto replies that he doubts his father thought of himself as a saviour, but that
Jiraiya
 did, and that although Minato may have passed away, he and Kushina instilled in Naruto their faith that he could finish their job and fulfil that role. Tsunade asks A to let Naruto pass — to believe in Naruto. Naruto dodges the Raikage's fastest attack, to both B and Tsunade's astonishment, vowing that he won't fail. The Raikage states that he wanted to test Naruto in his own way, and that he is only the second person in the world to dodge his top-speed punch, telling Naruto that the saviour is alive and well within him, and allowing him to continue on, towards the battlefield. Back at the Allied Shinobi Forces HQ, Shikaku decides on using Naruto's ability to sense evil thoughts and intentions while in Nine-Tails Mode to seek out the White Zetsu impersonating the shinobi. Meanwhile, as the sun begins to rise, Tobi stands with a newly created
Six Paths of Pain
, composed of the reincarnated jinchūriki — all bearing both the
Sharingan
 and the
Rinnegan
.