"
Two Fates
" (
宿命のふたり
,
Shukumei no Futari
) is episode 215 of the
Naruto: Shippūden
 anime.

Synopsis

Kakashi
 praises
Naruto
's timely appearance while
Sakura
 realises in shock that
Sasuke
 truly meant to kill her. Naruto attempts to convince Sasuke to turn back on his quest, claiming he would be there to save Sasuke no matter what. Sasuke smirks and replies that he doesn't need rescuing, and that he wants nothing more than to destroy
Konoha
 for the way they treated the
Uchiha clan
 and to snuff out of the villagers from whom he hears nothing but laughter and condescension. Naruto notifies Sasuke that he knows the truth about
Itachi
, having been told by
Tobi
, and that he understands exactly what Sasuke wants to do, stunning Kakashi and Sakura.

Sasuke reminds Naruto that as he had no parents or siblings, he could never understand how he feels. Wanting nothing more than vengeance, he declares that he has already killed
Danzō
, a village elder responsible for the
Uchiha Clan Downfall
, and that he can feel his clan's name being purified. Kakashi is shocked to discover that Sasuke killed Danzō all on his own, and realises that Sasuke has changed from his student on
Team 7
 and that he is a by-product of the cycle of hatred perpetuated in the
shinobi
 world. Sasuke forms his
Chidori
 and begins to approach them, while Naruto creates two
shadow clones
 in response. Kakashi, however, bars Naruto and his clones from engaging in combat, telling him to take Sakura and flee instead since he does not want them to see what he is about to do. Naruto asks if his words imply that he is going to kill Sasuke, but Kakashi merely produces his
Lightning Cutter
 and takes a stance towards Sasuke. Gritting his teeth, Naruto has a shadow clone restrain Kakashi while using the other to form his
Rasengan
, and rushes towards Sasuke, who is also running towards him.

As they head towards each other, Naruto recalls how he was treated when he was younger and muses how their roles could have been reversed, imagining himself using Chidori and Sasuke stopping him with Rasengan. The two remember their
last battle
 at the
Valley of the End
 as their attacks once more clash against one another; Sasuke and Naruto look at each other. In his mind, Naruto tells Sasuke that he could have been just like him, as he once hated all the villagers for treating him badly and that he wanted revenge against them too. He credits his change in attitude to Sasuke and
Iruka
, with whom he formed a bond, the latter even saving his life from
Mizuki
 when Mizuki revealed to him that he was the vessel of the
Nine-Tails
. Naruto reflects on how he was happy to realise that Sasuke was an orphan like him and thought they could talk and bond over it; however, he and Sasuke had a chasm in skill between them and so Naruto decided to be his rival instead. Smiling, he declares that since that day, Sasuke has been his goal.

Trivia

In the beginning of this episode, there is an animation error:

Sasuke is depicted with both of his
wrist

bracelets
 when the one on his left was taken off during his battle against
Danzō
.

For this episode and part of the last, Sasuke had no pupils in his eyes, but when he clashes with Naruto near the end of this episode, Sasuke has his pupils.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Maile Flanagan
Sakura Haruno
Chie Nakamura
中村 千絵
Nakamura Chie
Kate Higgins
Kakashi Hatake
Kazuhiko Inoue
井上 和彦
Inoue Kazuhiko
Dave Wittenberg
Sasuke Uchiha
Noriaki Sugiyama
杉山 紀彰
Sugiyama Noriaki
Yuri Lowenthal
Karin
Kanako Tojo
東條 加那子
Tōjō Kanako
Ali Hillis
Iruka Umino
Toshihiko Seki
関 俊彦
Seki Toshihiko
Quinton Flynn
Mizuki
Shinichiro Miki
三木 眞一郎
Miki Shin'ichirō
Michael Reisz