The
Uchiha Clan
 (
うちは一族
,
Uchiha Ichizoku
) is a well known clan of
Konohagakure
,
 reputed to be the village's strongest because of their
Sharingan
 and natural battle prowess.
 After helping found Konoha decades ago, the Uchiha grew increasingly isolated from the village's affairs, culminating in most of their deaths during the
Uchiha Clan Downfall
.

Background

Founding

The Uchiha are descendants of
Indra Ōtsutsuki
, the elder son of
Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki
. Through Indra, the Uchiha inherited Hagoromo's "eyes", granting them powerful spiritual energy and
chakra
. As part of the so-called "
Curse of Hatred
" first displayed by Indra, Uchiha are subject to powerful emotions: these emotions typically start as love for a friend or family member that then become overpowering hatred when the object of their love is lost. This loss, whether actually experienced or merely threatened, awakens an Uchiha's
Sharingan
. It is due to the Sharingan that the Uchiha have received much of their fame and notoriety.

The Uchiha have been fighting the
Senju clan
 for centuries, a rivalry that traces back to the days of Indra and his younger brother,
Asura
. When the Sage of Six Paths was dying, he selected Asura as his successor, believing Asura's desire for peace through love was better than Indra's peace through power. Indra, driven by his Curse of Hatred, fought Asura to claim what he believed was his birthright. The Uchiha and Senju, descendants of Indra and Asura respectively, continued their battle through the centuries, though none still remembered this reason for their conflict.






The Uchiha during the Warring States Period.



By the time of the
Warring States Period
, the Uchiha and Senju had emerged as the strongest
shinobi
 clans in the world. When one of the fledgling countries of the era would hire the Uchiha to fight in their wars, the opposing side would hire the Senju.
 The constant warfare between their clans only fuelled their hatred, with all Uchiha owing the death of a loved one to a Senju and vice versa. But centuries of conflict began to wear on members of the clans;
Madara Uchiha
 and
Hashirama Senju
 met as children and became friends, bonding over their disapproval of the combat and death that they and their younger brothers were constantly subjected to and dreaming of a time when children wouldn't need to fight. Unable to do anything about the world at their age, Madara turned away from their dreams.

Madara and Hashirama continued to face each other in battle over the coming years. Driven by his desire to defeat Hashirama and through competition with his younger brother,
Izuna
, Madara became the first Uchiha to awaken his
Mangekyō Sharingan
. With its increased power he took control of the Uchiha. Hashirama, by then leader of the Senju, tried to use their positions to broker peace between them and finally achieve their childhood dreams. Despite growing interest in peace amongst the Uchiha, Madara was unwilling to agree to peace after Izuna was killed by Hashirama's brother,
Tobirama
. Using Izuna's eyes to acquire "eternal" Mangekyō, Madara challenged the Senju for supremacy one final time.
 He was defeated, but even then refused Hashirama's offer of peace, insisting that Hashirama kill himself first. When Hashirama agreed to these terms, Madara was moved to accept, withdrawing his request for Hashirama's death.

Konohagakure






The Senju and Uchiha form an alliance.



They unified with Senju and made a pact with the
Land of Fire
 to create a
hidden village
 within its borders, what would become
Konohagakure
. Other clans settled in Konoha to share their peace and Konoha's model was adopted across the shinobi world, ending the turmoil of the era.
 When it came time to select Konoha's First
Hokage
, Konoha's leader, the villagers selected Hashirama. Madara interpreted this as the first step in the Senju's supremacy over the Uchiha and tried to rally his clan to take control of the village. Weary of the fighting, the Uchiha ignored him, prompting him to leave the village.
 He later returned, challenging Hashirama at what would become the
Valley of the End
 and dying in battle.

Despite Madara's actions, Hashirama did not hold anything against the Uchiha, and in fact urged his successor as Hokage, Tobirama, to be careful not to offend them. Tobirama created the
Konoha Military Police Force
 for the Uchiha to lead, believing it would be both the best use of their skills and the best way to focus the clan's energies towards serving Konoha. But the Military Police Force was headquartered in a remote part of the village,
 and by its nature prevented Uchiha from holding any position of real influence within Konoha's government. As such, some Uchiha came to feel as though they were being deliberately isolated from Konoha, a sentiment that spread amongst the clan over the following decades.

In
Book of Bright Light
, after the
Third Shinobi World War
, many within the Uchiha clan believed the clan's leader,
Fugaku
, should become Konoha's Fourth Hokage. But Fugaku was not even considered for the position, and the title of Fourth was passed to yet another
disciple of the Senju
. Fugaku's supporters were outraged, but Fugaku resisted their calls to protest. A few months later, during the
Nine-Tailed Demon Fox's Attack
, Fugaku made immediate plans for the Military Police Force to join the village's defence, believing their Sharingan's ability to control the
Nine-Tails
 would be indispensable in protecting the village. Before they could lend aid, however, they received instructions from Konoha's leadership to patrol Konoha's borders instead, a sign that, even in the middle of an attack, the village already suspected an Uchiha was responsible; just as the Sharingan could be used to stop the Nine-Tails, so too could it cause the Nine-Tails' attack in the first place. Fugaku once again complied with the orders without comment. In the aftermath of the attack, the Uchiha clan were relocated to a compound along the village's outskirts on the pretext of it being a necessary step in Konoha's reconstruction. In truth, the
Konoha Council
 was convinced that the Nine-Tails' attack was the first manifestation of the Uchiha's long-simmering dissatisfaction, and needed to put the entire clan together in order to monitor them and prevent any additional attacks. With this, Fugaku and the rest of the clan could no longer sit idly: to be treated with such scepticism despite their years of service to the village convinced them that Madara had been right.






The Uchiha clan during Fugaku's leadership.



Under the leadership of
Fugaku Uchiha
, the Uchiha began plotting a coup d'état to overthrow the
Third Hokage
 and his administration.
 They strategically placed some of their members within the
Anbu
 in order to spy on Konoha, but some of these very spies disagreed with the Uchiha's plans, believing an Uchiha coup would only begin a world war.
Shisui Uchiha
 asked the Third Hokage and
Danzō Shimura
 that he will use
Kotoamatsukami
 to force the Uchiha to stop their plans, as Hiruzen agreed, but Danzō was determined with his own way, so he was prevented from doing so by Danzō Shimura, who thought Shisui's plan would not work, stole the right Mangekyō Sharingan of his. Danzō after that approached
Itachi Uchiha
, a longtime double agent for Konoha, and gave him an ultimatum: allow the Uchiha to carry out their coup, inevitably ending with the eradication of all Uchiha, or Itachi could wipe out the Uchiha before they had the chance, and in exchange he could spare his younger brother,
Sasuke Uchiha
. Itachi chose the latter.






The Uchiha Clan Downfall.



Before assassinating his clan, Itachi sought out the help of
Tobi
, who he was believed to be Madara Uchiha.
In a single night
, Itachi and Tobi wiped out the entire Uchiha clan, with Itachi taking responsibility of killing his parents. When he was discovered by Sasuke, Itachi pretended to be solely responsible for the attack, concealing Konoha's involvement and the fact that he did everything for Sasuke's safety. Overwhelmed with grief for killing his family, Itachi wanted Sasuke to take revenge against him, and to do that, he began pushing Sasuke to get strong enough to kill him. In the meantime, he left Sasuke under the Third Hokage's care, due to the fact the Third had long desired a peaceful resolution to the Uchiha's grievances.

Post-Downfall

In the decades following the massacre, the Police Force would be placed under the authority of the
Fūma Clan
, themselves distant relatives of the Uchiha.
 Only three Uchiha survived their clan's downfall: Itachi, by publicly acting as a criminal by joining The
Akatsuki
, continued serving Konoha for the rest of his life until finally dying while fighting Sasuke, Sasuke, by seeking power (at Itachi’s insistence) at any cost so that he could someday
kill Itachi
, a pursuit that drove him to eventually defect from Konoha and become an international criminal, and Tobi, whose real name was
Obito Uchiha
, who kept to the shadows for many years following his apparent death during the
Third Shinobi World War
, only taking public actions after Itachi's death so that he can gain Sasuke's assistance during the
Fourth Shinobi World War
. From learning from Obito about what Konoha forced Itachi to do, Sasuke initially decides to destroy Konoha to take revenge. When he's able to talk with a
reincarnated
 Itachi, however, he changes his mind, as Konoha's destruction would make all that Itachi sacrificed meaningless.

During the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, Madara Uchiha was
temporarily

brought back to life
. He and Obito joined forces in trying to use the
Ten-Tails
 to enslave the world with the
Infinite Tsukuyomi
. After learning the truth from Itachi, Sasuke opposes them and joined forces with the
Allied Shinobi Forces
, and Obito, in time, also sides against Madara. However, after being redeemed, Obito gave his life to end the war and Madara died shortly afterwards, leaving Sasuke the last surviving Uchiha. Following his subsequent battle with Naruto, Sasuke is redeemed and escapes the Curse of Hatred that plagued the Uchiha for so long. Despite his years of criminal actions, his contributions to the Alliance's victory in the Fourth Shinobi World War were enough for him to be pardoned for his crimes.

Years later, Sasuke married
Sakura Haruno
 and together they have a daughter,
Sarada
, thus restarting the Uchiha line. At some point, selective information regarding Sasuke's history became restricted from the general public, requiring special permits for consultation; even Sarada was not excluded from this restriction.
 An experiment of
Orochimaru
,
Shin
, creates numerous
clones of himself
 that all naturally possess Sharingan. Shin, being obsessed with the Uchiha, especially Itachi, took on the clan name for himself, and planned to use his clones to form his own pure line of the Uchiha Clan, but his mistreatment of them causes them to turn against him and kill him. The clones settled in Konoha afterwards.

Abilities






Fire Release: Great Fireball Technique, the signature technique of the Uchiha.



The Uchiha were known for their natural talent in all forms of combat, possessing potent chakra quality,
 and an advanced growth rate.
 They also have a natural affinity for the
fire

nature transformation
; Uchiha are not truly considered adults until they can successfully perform the
Fire Release: Great Fireball Technique
.
 Exceptional Uchiha have such skill with Fire Release that either multiple Water Release users working in tandem or a similarly skilled Water Release user are required to extinguish their flames.
 Uchiha also frequently use
ninja tools
 in combat, being best known for their use of
shuriken
.






The Sharingan.



The Uchiha clan are most feared for their
dōjutsu

kekkei genkai
, the
Sharingan
. They can use their Sharingan for heightened visual perception, cast various
genjutsu
, and, most infamously, copy opponents'
jutsu
. Additionally, the Sharingan can also further enhance the user’s combat power from channeling their strong emotions.
 This was often shown with
Sasuke
, as using his Sharingan in moments of intense hatred would allow his power and chakra potency to grow, even during the heat of battle.
 It is such a versatile ability that many ninja consider it wiser to flee than to face an Uchiha in one-on-one combat.
  The Sharingan can be evolved into
Mangekyō Sharingan
 by experiencing the loss of a loved one, granting the wielder usage of a new, more powerful jutsu in both of their eyes. Overuse of the Mangekyō Sharingan eventually robs the user of their sight, something that can only be restored by receiving another's eyes, preferably a sibling's, to create an "eternal" Mangekyō Sharingan. The Mangekyō Sharingan's mechanics were long poorly misunderstood by the Uchiha, causing many to personally kill their loved ones to gain power.

Leaders

Madara Uchiha
: Expelled/defected from the clan; unknown successor.

Fugaku Uchiha
: The last leader before the clan's demise.

Sasuke Uchiha
: Patriarch of the Uchiha after it was reduced to a single nuclear family.

Heirs

Itachi Uchiha
: Designated to be Fugaku's successor; disinherited due to his wayward beliefs.

Sasuke Uchiha
: Designated to be Fugaku's successor after Itachi was disinherited.

Sarada Uchiha
: Sasuke's only child.

Trivia

"Uchiha" is another way of pronouncing "
uchiwa
" (
団扇
,
paper fan
), which is the clan's symbol. Uchiwa can be used to fan flames, making the flame hotter — referring to the fact that the Uchiha is a clan of
Fire Release
 users. Likewise, the "
gunbai-uchiwa
" that the crest resembles, is a tool used by military commanders to issue orders to troops.

Attire-wise, the Uchiha have always favoured high-collared outfits with their clan's symbol proudly emblazoned on the back. During the
Warring States Period
, the Uchiha refused to have any armour on their back in order to proudly display their clan's symbol. Over the generations, their attire has changed with their attire initially consisting of a dark coloured mantle along with pants, which later became simple shirts and pants, all the while retaining the high collar.

Many of the Uchiha Clan's
jutsu
 (
Tsukuyomi
,
Amaterasu
, etc.) are named after Shintō deities from the Japanese creation myth.

The clan had various places affiliated with them:

A
senbei shop
 that was famous throughout the village.

A
shrine
 where the clan secretly met.

A supply base in
Sora-ku
.

A
hideout
 that served as the arena for the
final battle
 between
Sasuke
 and
Itachi
.

References