This article is about the chapter. For the ninjutsu, see
Rasengan: "Uzuhiko"
.

"
Uzuhiko
" (
渦彦
,
Uzuhiko
) is chapter 3 of the
Boruto: Two Blue Vortex
 manga.

Summary

Code
 wonders if
Boruto
's new
Rasengan
 is his
vanishing one
, but discards the possibility. He uses
Claw Marks
 to strike him from behind. Boruto dodges it, Code grabs him by the wrist, and Boruto blocks Code's other hand with his sword. Code thinks Boruto can't hit him, but Boruto reveals his technique is already affecting him. The swirling begins enveloping Code, Boruto asks him again where the
Ten-Tails
 is, threatening to kill him. Code attempts to strike him, but can't land a hit, finding Boruto's movements to be beyond dodging, also ruling out
clones
 and
genjutsu
. Boruto lands his
Rasengan: "Uzuhiko"
.
Watching
,
Ada
 is unimpressed by Boruto's jutsu, but
Daemon
 realises it makes use of planetary spin, considering it nifty. Code tries to stand, but falls down due to vertigo. Boruto explains his jutsu, considering it the planet's counterattack, the damage never stopping as long as the planet continues spinning. Boruto can rescind the effects if Code takes him to the Ten-Tails.
Kawaki
 attacks Boruto, arriving with
Team 10
 and
Himawari
.

Shikadai
 asks what Boruto is doing, and Boruto tells him not to interrupt his attempt to make a deal. Code attempts to escape, but Kawaki
shrinks
 the Claw Marks.
Shikamaru
 asks for a report, Kawaki tells he has dealt with the last of Code's marks, cutting off his escape, and can likely kill him on account of how drained he is against Boruto. Kawaki antagonises Boruto, giving Code an opening to call forth a
Claw Grime
 with the mark on his face and escape through it. Shikamaru gives to order to kill every grime.
Sarada
 and another shinobi check on the tree that grew around
Soegi
, considering it a defective
God Tree
, and determine that Soegi is still alive. Kawaki mocks Boruto's Uchiha-like outfit. Boruto is glad that Himawari looks well. Kawaki thinks Boruto came home to die, and while dying in Konoha doesn't sound bad to him, Boruto still has things to do. A hidden
toad
 in his collar reports to Boruto that Code returned to his base. Code stumbles past a tree with
Bug
 before arriving at the pen, with an emaciated Ten-Tails. A toad Boruto planted on Code reports the Ten-Tails' presence to Boruto.