The
Uzumaki Clan
 (
うずまき一族
,
Uzumaki Ichizoku
) was a formerly prominent clan in
Uzushiogakure
. Its members are renown for having bright, red hair, possessing incredibly strong life-forces and
chakra
,
 and their prowess in
fūinjutsu
. Despite the fall of Uzushiogakure and decline of the clan, it never quite went extinct as most of its known members have since resided in
Konohagakure
. The clan itself was recognised as active again 15 years after the
Fourth Shinobi World War
.

Overview






The Uzumaki and Senju after the creation of their villages.



The Uzumaki, being descendants of
Kaguya Ōtsutsuki
, also shared distant blood relation with the
Senju clan
.
 Through the years, the Uzumaki and Senju kept close ties, with members at times marrying between clans, as with
Hashirama Senju
 and
Mito Uzumaki
.
 Following the founding of Konohagakure at the end of the
Warring States Period
, the Senju chose to symbolise their clans' friendship by adding the Uzumaki's emblem to Konoha's
flak jackets
. Konoha and the Uzumaki's own Uzushiogakure remained close allies over the following decades, with the Uzumaki providing
fūinjutsu
 (among other things) to Konoha whenever there was a need.
 In time, the
Uzumaki Clan's Mask Storage Temple
 was even constructed on Konoha's outskirts.






An abandoned Uzumaki temple.



The Uzumaki's skill with fūinjutsu earned them both respect and fear throughout the ninja world. At some point after
Kushina Uzumaki
 immigrated to Konoha, Uzushiogakure was targeted and destroyed, some believing the village was too powerful to be allowed to continue.
 The survivors of Uzushio's destruction went into hiding and spread throughout the world.
 Of the known members,
Nagato
 was raised in the outskirts of
Amegakure
,
Karin
 apparently lived in
Kusagakure
 for a time, Kushina in Konoha, who had a son,
Naruto
. After his parents' deaths, Naruto was given his mother's surname, Uzumaki, by the
Third Hokage
 to protect him from
his father's
 enemies. At some point, the clan was recognised as being part of Konoha,
 with its only known member, Naruto, marrying a
Hyūga

clanswoman
 and having
two

children
 and later adopting
Kawaki
 as a son.

Abilities






The typical appearance of an Uzumaki fūinjutsu.



Uzumaki naturally possess incredibly strong life-forces. As such, they have very long lifespans and likewise age slower;
 Mito Uzumaki was born before the founding of Konoha yet lived well into the reign of the
Third Hokage
 while still retaining full-colouring in her hair. This also enables them to survive and endure much more severe injuries while likewise able to recover from injuries and exhaustion with much greater efficiency in short periods of time. These traits are strong enough to survive the removal of
tailed beasts
, although they are still left severely weakened afterwards.






Karin's chakra being consumed, healing the target.



Uzumaki also have the ability to quickly heal themselves
 and others, through
consumption
 of their
chakra
.
 It is dangerous, however, to use this ability too regularly. Some members, like Karin, can display a unique
sensory ability
 as well as the ability to
suppress
 their chakra signature making them undetectable.






Kushina incorporating her adamantine chains with a barrier.



Some members, Kushina and — to a lesser extent — Karin, also possessed a unique form of chakra with special properties which made them especially well-suited to become
jinchūriki
 as well as produce
adamantine chains
 made from their own chakra.
 In addition to their life-forces, the Uzumaki were most famed for their fūinjutsu, the seal of which typically appears as a spiral crest reminiscent of their clan's symbol.

Known Leaders

Ashina Uzumaki
: Former Head

Naruto Uzumaki
: Current Head

Trivia

The name "Uzumaki" can either mean "
whirlpool
" or "
maelstrom
".

Red hair was a common trait amongst Uzumaki Clan members.

Tsunade
 and
Nawaki
 are descendants of the Uzumaki Clan through their
grandmother
.

Due to Naruto Uzumaki having children with
Hinata Hyūga
, his direct descendants have the potential to awaken the
Byakugan
.

The anime character
Honoka
 is hinted to be an Uzumaki, as she has red hair and fūinjutsu talents. A book found by
Aoba
 in the same episode mentions finding a survivor of a "certain clan of ninja".

Menma Namikaze
, an
Infinite Tsukuyomi
 counterpart of Naruto Uzumaki, is a descendant of the Uzumaki Clan by his mother.

References