"
Vengeful Strike! The Bracken Dance!
" (
執念の一撃!早蕨の舞
,
Shūnen no Ichigeki! Sawarabi no Mai
) is episode 127 of the original
Naruto
 anime.

Synopsis

Kimimaro
 manages to tackle Gaara, whose sand cushions his fall. His
Armour of Sand
 also absorbs the damage of Kimimaro's strike.
Lee
 decides to use this opportunity to perform an attack behind Kimimaro, though Kimimaro is able to avoid it and nearly kills Lee in the process, with Gaara having saved him. Realising that in his current physical state that he is nothing but a burden, Lee relents and allows Gaara to fight alone. Kimimaro
pulls out his spine
 and uses it to restrain Gaara. He then transforms his right hand into a
bone drill
 in an attempt to bore through Gaara and kill him. Gaara manages to use the hardest minerals in the ground and fuses it into the sand with his chakra to summon his
Ultimately Hard Absolute Defence: Shield of Shukaku
, which is hard enough not only to prevent Kimimaro's bone drill from boring through but to shatter the bone completely.

Gaara realises that Kimimaro's technique is a
kekkei genkai
, and Kimimaro tells him that it is a trait that belonged to the
Kaguya Clan
, and that he is the last of the clan. Gaara tells Kimimaro that the Kaguya Clan will end today with Kimimaro's death, although Kimimaro states that he will continue to live on within
Orochimaru
. Gaara remarks that Orochimaru has brainwashed Kimimaro well and that the latter is nothing but a pawn. Almost depleted of his chakra, Gaara dispels his Shield of Shukaku while also using the sand around him to release himself from Kimimaro's spine grip. Using his last remaining chakra, Gaara uses his
Prison Sand Burial
 technique to swallow Kimimaro and sink him two hundred meters underground under tight pressure. Enraged at Gaara's remarks about him being nothing but Orochimaru's pawn, Kimimaro uses his ultimate technique which causes
thousands of bones to emerge from the ground
. Gaara manages to save his and Lee's life by
elevating
 them with his sand. Gaara states that he is out of both strength and chakra while Lee remarks that at least he managed to kill Kimimaro. Right on cue, Kimimaro sprouts from one of the bones with a bone drill in hand prepared to kill Gaara for his remarks regarding Orochimaru. However, before he can kill Gaara, Kimimaro's terminal illness gets the better of him and he dies.

Gaara and Lee manage to descend to safety, with the former contemplating how lucky he was. Lee mentions how
Guy
 once told him that a shinobi makes his own luck, prompting Gaara to accidentally insult Guy and call him a meddlesome fool (as Guy had prevented Gaara from killing Lee earlier). Lee states that while he is grateful to Gaara for saving his life, he will not tolerate any insults geared towards his sensei. Gaara tells Lee that both he and
Naruto
 have that in common - they have people who they care about so much that any attack to that person is an affront to them. Gaara also wonders whether it is better to care and protect an evil person rather than to remain lonely, realising that that is exactly what Kimimaro had done.

Meanwhile, Naruto manages to catch up to
Sasuke
 at the
Valley of the End
.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Maile Flanagan
Rock Lee
Yoichi Masukawa
増川 洋一
Masukawa Yōichi
Brian Donovan
Gaara
Akira Ishida
石田 彰
Ishida Akira
Liam O'Brien
Kimimaro
Toshiyuki Morikawa
森川 智之
Morikawa Toshiyuki
Keith Silverstein
Orochimaru
Kujira
くじら
Kujira
Steve Blum
Kabuto Yakushi
Nobutoshi Kanna
神奈 延年
Kanna Nobutoshi
Henry Dittman
Kazekage
Masahiko Tanaka
田中 正彦
Tanaka Masahiko
Crispin Freeman
Sakon
Shunsuke Sakuya
咲野 俊介
Sakuya Shunsuke
Brian Beacock
Kidōmaru
Susumu Chiba
千葉 進歩
Chiba Susumu
Peter Lurie
Tayuya
Akeno Watanabe
渡辺 明乃
Watanabe Akeno
Kari Wahlgren
Jirōbō
Kenta Miyake
三宅 健太
Miyake Kenta
Michael Sorich