"
Victor's Scheme
" (
ヴィクタの陰謀
,
Vikuta no Inbō
) is episode 179 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Victor
 finishes preparing an airship equipped with the latest stealth technology, and worries about his failing body, which can't handle the stress of his
Regeneration Techniques
. He crosses a space–time gate.
Amado
 runs diagnostics on him, and reports his regeneration is declining. He offers to make him replacement body parts, but Victor refuses being his guinea pig again. He accuses Amado of being a mad scientist, who assures him all he does is for the advancement of
Kara
. He adds that Victor's health is being eroded by the cursed seal he used to extend his life, and replacing body parts won't solve the root of his problem. Amado is surprised Victor came to see him, as he hates him. Victor is agitated by how long Kara's plans are taking to advance, worried his body will give out before Kara's goals can be used to advance his own ambitions.
 Victor falls down in pain. Amado treats him before being called by
Delta
. Victor wakes up, having drugged himself beforehand to slip into a coma. He releases a spy drone to covertly copy data about the
Vessel
, a focal part of Kara's plan, which he also plans to steal. Amado finds Delta making a ruckus, and she complains that despite having him calibrate it, her right leg's reaction time is off. She wants him to do it again, but he explains Victor's in the infirmary, having had a seizure. Delta is surprised by his presence, and wishes he had died alongside
Deepa
. She also voices her hatred of him,
Code
, and
Boro
 before leaving. Amado is called by
Jigen
, while Victor finishes copying the Vessel's data. Victor is surprised by phase 3 of the plans for the Vessel. Jigen asks Amado if the Vessel has reached phase 3, and why he wasn't notified immediately. Amado says he wanted to gather enough data to make sure of it as not to give Jigen false hope. Jigen wishes to test the Vessel on the surface, much to Amado's surprise, who thought tests were out of the question until the next phase. Jigen knows moving the Vessel will be noticed by shinobi, but it's a risk they have to take. Victor arrives, and having heard their talk, suggests they use his airship. Amado suspects his willingness to collaborate, but Victor plays up his worsening condition. Jigen approves, but Amado requires certain conditions, such as Victor not being aboard the airship, and being in charge of loading the Vessel and selecting the flight plan. Jigen watches as Victor leaves to begin preparations. In
Konoha
,
Team 7
 gets an official commendation for their role in resolving the issues in the
Land of Valleys
.
Boruto
 asks his father to spar with him, which
Naruto
 considers. The Vessel is loaded into the airship, and Delta is suspicious of Victor. Amado assures her that it's impossible to change its path from autopilot, and Delta says she'd love to slice them up should they fail. The airship takes off in stealth mode. At the
Hokage Rock
, Boruto removes his bandages, and recalls
Momoshiki
's words as he looks at the
seal
 in his hand. Victor attempts to change the airship's path with a hidden mechanism, but something goes wrong and it crashes. Victor wonders if his plan was discovered, but considers that if that were so, they wouldn't have actually loaded the Vessel. At Kara's lair, Jigen is pensive.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Sarada Uchiha
Kokoro Kikuchi
菊池 こころ
Kikuchi Kokoro
Mitsuki
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Shikamaru Nara
Shotaro Morikubo
森久保 祥太郎
Morikubo Shōtarō
Konohamaru Sarutobi
Hidenori Takahashi
高橋 英則
Takahashi Hidenori
Mugino
Jun Kasama
笠間 淳
Kasama Jun
Jigen
Kenjiro Tsuda
津田 健次郎
Tsuda Kenjirō
Amado
Akio Otsuka
大塚 明夫
Ōtsuka Akio
Victor
Cho
チョー
Chō
Delta
Hoko Kuwashima
桑島 法子
Kuwashima Hōko