"
Welcome to the Maze
" (
迷宮へようこそ
,
Meikyū e Yōkoso
) is episode 276 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 anime.

Synopsis

Boruto
 doesn't recognise his surroundings when he wakes up. He exchanges words with
Kiri
 bounty hunter
Anaguma
, and asks about an exit. Anaguma points him to a
Fire Release
 user, who has been trying to break out for a while with no result, and accidentally hits
Shamo
, an Iwa shinobi as he approaches. Boruto checks on him, and
Kiseru
 recognises Boruto, also a
Konoha
 shinobi and an acquaintance of
Konohamaru
. A girl asks about Anaguma's bounty,
Rokuro
, who she thinks smells of blood. Anaguma tells her to be careful. An old man arrives, congratulating them on surviving, claiming that a drug storage facility along the tracks of their
Thunder Train
 exploded, exposing them to toxic gas, requiring them to be taken to a containment facility in case they were contaminated. A
Kumo

kunoichi
 has no recollection of it, but the old man blames it on the gas, claiming that many passengers died over inhaling too much of the gas. Before letting them go, the man wants them to go through a test, believing that the choices they just happened to make that allowed to survive were not coincidences, but a subconscious ability to avoid death.
 He wishes to test that ability, and offers a card-drawing test. Kiseru feels confident, but Boruto finds it suspicious. Another Kiri bounty hunter draws a death card, and is killed by the old man with a blade extending from his finger. Boruto attacks the old man with
Wind Release: Gale Palm
. Kiseru calls Boruto to inspect the old man, revealed to be a puppet.
Ōga
 introduces himself as the lord of the maze, and explains that the experiment isn't a game, and his is an underground maze unknown to all but him. He ignores Boruto's admonishment and proceeds explaining there will be five experiments, detailed in scrolls he presents them. If they don't pass all the experiments, they'll never leave the maze. A
Kusa
 shinobi complains about it, knocking over one of the scrolls, selecting an experiment by accident. The scrolls summons them to a different location. The Kumo kunoichi wants a civilian to spend what she presumes to be money he has on a briefcase he's holding tightly to hire her, finding him unlikely to survive on his own. Kiseru criticises the Kusa shinobi, who pushes him back. Boruto stops Shamo from falling when the stone floor near the edge of the platform they're on collapses.
Yatsume
 introduces herself to Boruto. Another section of the floor collapses near an old man. Ōga explains they have to leave the brittle platform and reach another platform above them. Boruto and Kiseru rush and attempt to attack Ōga, but he disappears. The brittle platform continues to collapse, and the man with the briefcase accepts help from the Kumo kunoichi, who uses a powerful
Wind Release
 to
lift them
 to the firm platform. A participant warns her that such a strong jutsu will collapse the platform, and she is unbothered by his accusation of caring only for herself. The Kusa shinobi also jumps to safety. The platform continues to collapse, some participants falling. Anaguma attempts to hold it together with
Water Release

threads
. Rokuro says he won't be able to hold it alone. Yatsume is exasperated when Boruto jumps back down to help the old man, while the Kumo kunoichi finds him naive. Kiseru uses the firm platform's fence to make a rope ladder for everyone else to climb, but can only support one person at once. Shamo helps a young girl who sprained her ankle. Anaguma warns Boruto his jutsu won't hold for long. A man loses his patience when the platform continues to give while an old couple takes too long to climb. The rest of the threads give away, throwing Anaguma off the edge. Rokuro holds him with his legs, and asks civilian Kakesu to tap Anaguma's keys on his cuff to release him so he can use his jutsu to save her. Anaguma urges her not to trust him. She releases Rokuro, who lets Anaguma fall, and ignores Kakesu when the floor under her collapses. He has a bladed arm. The man and the old man fall as more of the platform collapses. Boruto asks
Namua
 to help a woman, while he carries the girl with the sprained ankle. Shamo asks for help as Boruto reaches the top. Boruto manages to grab him as the rest of the platform collapses and
Boruto Streams
 himself and Shamo up, Yatsume grabbing them at the bottom of the ladder. Ōga allows them to rest before the next experiment, and they return to original room. Boruto criticises Rokuro for sacrificing Anaguma, but he's determined to survive, even at the expense of everyone else. The Kumo kunoichi notes there were 14 survivors. Boruto wants to survive to capture Ōga.

Trivia

When Ōga shows the life and death cards, their fronts and backs change without being turned over between frames.

Despite his full name being mentioned in the episode, Kiseru's family name is absent in the credits.

Despite her name being singled out in the episode, Kakesu's role isn't singled out in the credits, most likely being one of the roles credited as "Labyrinth people".

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Boruto Uzumaki
Yuko Sanpei
三瓶 由布子
Sanpei Yūko
Shamo
Aoi Inase
いなせ あおい
Inase Aoi
Yatsume
Sara Matsumoto
松本 沙羅
Matsumoto Sara
Kiseru
Katsunori Okai
岡井 カツノリ
Okai Katsunori
Namua
Shinya Hamazoe
浜添 伸也
Hamazoe Shin'ya
Batta
Chihiro Ikki
一木 千洋
Ikki Chihiro
Fugō
Taira Kikumoto
菊本 平
Kikumoto Taira
Rokuro
Atsushi Abe
阿部 敦
Abe Atsushi
Anaguma
Ryuichi Kijima
木島 隆一
Kijima Ryūichi
Kusagakure shinobi
Hirokazu Sekido
関戸 博一
Sekido Hirokazu
Labyrinth people
Kokoro Kikuchi
Natsumi Yamada
Kazuya Saji
Kumi Takaragi
Ryo Nishitani
Kosuke Katayama
Juri Nagatsuma
菊池 こころ
山田 奈都美
佐治 和也
宝木 久美
西谷 亮
片山 公輔
長妻 樹里
Kikuchi Kokoro
Yamada Natsumi
Saji Kazuya
Takaragi Kumi
Nishitani Ryō
Katayama Kōsuke
Nagatsuma Juri
Ōga
Kappei Yamaguchi
山口 勝平
Yamaguchi Kappei