"
What Can Fill a Hole
" (
埋めるもの
,
Umeru Mono
,
Viz:
 Something to Fill the Hole) is chapter 630 of the original
Naruto
 manga.

Summary

Further elaborating his point,
Obito
 offers
Kakashi
 consolation to join a
world where he may fill the hole in his heart
, and goes as far as to
recreate

Rin
, and himself as young children to persuade Kakashi. Kakashi, however, shrugs off the idea and tells Obito that delusions could not fix the empty hole in his heart. Meanwhile on the battlefield, the
Ten-Tails
 begins to transform once again as it charges its
attack
.
Gyūki
 warns
B
 that if it reaches its final stage, it would be hopeless to win and that it is their turn to lead the
Allied Shinobi Forces
. As he watches the progressing battle, Madara notes that the Ten-Tails has started to become impatient after seeing the
tailed beasts
 inside
Naruto
 and is dismayed that his "fun" was about to end. Noticing the enormous attack, various
shinobi
 start to despair having lost Naruto's chakra shroud.
Sakura
 rallies the shinobi to continue fighting as she
heals
 Naruto, declaring that they had to do everything in their power.
Shikamaru
, having thought of a plan, contacts
Kitsuchi
 via
Ino
's
telepathy
 and inquires from him the
hand seals
 used to perform the simplest
earthen defence
 intending to use the quantity of the shinobi to overwhelm the Ten-Tails' attack. Having learned the seals, Ino informs all of the shinobi of them as they begin to initiate the strategy. Within
Kamui's dimension
, Obito questions Kakashi how reality may mend the hole in one's heart. Kakashi calmly tells Obito that being trash has taught him a valuable lesson — that the hole can always be filled up by the feelings of his friends — going as far as to consider those who abandon those feelings way worse than those who abandon their friends. Obito is startled at his words as it was the very words he uttered to Kakashi when they were young. With this, Kakashi states that he won't let the feelings of the old Obito go to waste even if he himself refuses them. Meanwhile at the battlefield, the Tailed Beast Ball starts to best the various earth walls created even with B's support to change the trajectory. Just as the walls were about to breach, the attack
disappears
 following the arrival of the
Fourth Hokage
 — who questions his son if he had arrived too late to which Naruto informs him that he was right on time.

Trivia

When Minato arrives at the battlefield, the hem of his cape lacks its flame designs. However, this was corrected in the tankōbon version.