"
What Dad Would Do!
" (
父ちゃんなら…!
,
Tōchan nara...!
) is chapter 80 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 manga.

Summary

At
Kawaki
's behest as he threaten her by grabbing her by her collar,
Ada
 lies to
Shikamaru
 that
Boruto
 killed
Naruto
. Shikamaru
relays
 the information to the search party.
Sarada
 tries to convince
Mitsuki
 not to go after Boruto.
Sumire
 suspects the flash of light has something to do with it. Sarada is stunned by the news, and Mitsuki goes searching for Boruto. Ada asks if he had to go this far. Kawaki is glad that now no one will interfere with him killing Boruto, planning to keep Naruto and
Hinata
 sealed until he has killed Boruto and
Code
.
Daemon
 arrives, asking if he did something with his sister, annoying him.
Sasuke
 finds Sarada, asking her if she's ok, noting Mitsuki's absence. She is shocked when Sasuke comments on the situation with Boruto and Kawaki, his perception altered as everyone else's. Sumire contacts her, and asks if she's of sound mind.
Team 10
 ambushes Boruto, admonishing him for killing Naruto. Sarada is confused, but Sumire assures her they are both fine. Sasuke is concerned by Sarada's disposition. Sumire shares her suspicion that Ada is somehow responsible for the change, pointing out that the two of them were likewise not affected, and surmising a
shinjutsu
 was likely involved, a drastic measure to save Kawaki.
 Sarada is deeply anguished by Boruto's predicament. She pleads with Sasuke that everyone is being deceived, but he still believes Boruto killed Naruto, something he can't ignore.
Momoshiki
 taunts Boruto, and offers to take over and kill Team 10 for him, but Boruto dismisses him. Sarada begs Sasuke to trust her, even if he doesn't understand her, and asks him to help Boruto. Sasuke notices she has awakened the
Mangekyō Sharingan
. Momoshiki continues to needle Boruto, trying to convince him to give into despair so he can take over. Sasuke rescues Boruto, confusing Team 10. As they leave the village, Sasuke shares his memories of Kawaki. Ada checks on something with her
Senrigan
, and tells Kawaki to return without her, while she and Daemon go somewhere else. Sasuke and Boruto rest for a bit, beyond the reach of Konoha's sensors, though not Ada. Boruto asks why Sasuke's helping him if he believes he's the enemy. He explains that Boruto has the
forehead protector
 he gave Kawaki, and he can feel Momoshiki's presence in him, despite remembering Momoshiki being in Kawaki. Several of the things bothering are doing so less and less, fearing how undependable his memories might be. Sasuke has decided that if he doesn't trust his own memories, he'll believe Sarada, finding it worth risking his life to help him because she asked him. He tells Boruto to validate Sarada's belief. Momoshiki continues to demean Boruto's situation, stressing that Ada's changes with
Omnipotence
 cannot be undone, even killing her wouldn't revert them. Boruto mocks Momoshiki's panic and desperation, telling him to stay quiet, dead as he is. Ada arrives with Daemon, and apologises to Boruto. She checks what he already knows, and explains that she only wanted to help Kawaki, but something else happened unintentionally. She compares it to when everyone first became captivated by her. Boruto explains what the shinjutsu did, this change reflecting what Kawaki wanted. She notes how calm he is about it, thinking he'd be more depressed. Boruto does feel crushed, but is thinking deeply about Kawaki experienced it all since he was little. He realises he might have angered Kawaki by trying to relate to him before. Ada tells him she thinks Kawaki does think of him as a brother. Sasuke tells Boruto that Naruto had been similarly shunned and had nothing, but turned it around through his actions, so he should do the same. Momoshiki is incensed by Boruto's determination. Boruto addresses him, pointing out he hasn't lost everything, stressing he has the blood his father, his
Hyūga
 mother, and
Hokage

grandfather
 in him, and most importantly, he's a
Konoha
 shinobi with the
Will of Fire
. He considers himself responsible for pushing Kawaki into taking such drastic measures, and is determined to get strong so as to turn their situation into a mere siblings' quarrel, believing it to be what Naruto would do. Ada asks if he's really twelve, and in an attempt to make up for her part in putting him in this situation, she promises not to look for him or Sasuke until they return to Konoha. She thinks it's her fault that Kawaki is acting like a coward, which makes her sick. Boruto thanks her, and asks her to thank Sarada for sending Sasuke to him. Daemon wants Boruto to grow strong enough that he would have to fight at full strength for the first time ever. Boruto doesn't think several lifetimes would be enough for that. Sasuke says they should be going, Konoha unlikely to give up their pursuit. Boruto thanks him, but he credits it to Sarada. Sumire joins Sarada, who wishes Boruto to be safe. Code continues to vow revenge on Boruto for stealing
Jigen
,
Isshiki
, and Ada from him. Kawaki is determined to kill Boruto as long as he's
Ōtsutsuki
. Boruto is determined to prove he is Boruto Uzumaki.