"
Where Tenten Belongs
" (
テンテンの居場所
,
Tenten no Ibasho
) is episode 428 of the
Naruto: Shippūden
 anime.

Summary

Kushina
 prepares breakfast for her
son
, who leaves without eating, angering her.
Tenten
 questions herself as she begins thinking of her fake teammates. She decides to ask for
Kurenai
's assistance in learning more about
genjutsu
, however, in her dream world, Kurenai can't use genjutsu, despite being fascinated by them. They discuss various methods of breaking genjutsu without much success. While eating, she is approached by a merchant who saw her fight the previous day, who asks what her problem is. He tells her that there is a
shinobi
 in
Amegakure
 who might be able to help her with breaking such a high level genjutsu, and hands her a map to the village.
 Despite
Konohagakure
 and Amegakure not being allies, Tenten decides to go anyway, but is captured by Konoha shinobi. They reveal they had intel of a planned Ame-led attack on the village, and that they were tipped she planned on deserting. They find the map to Amegakure on her, which secretly had a missive to Amegakure. Her team-mates and the villagers witness her being taken in, and she realises the merchant who gave her the map is the true mastermind of the plan. In jail, Tenten wonders about her situation, when Lee and Neji call out to her from the window. They say they believe her not to be a traitor, and that if they had supported her publicly before, they'd have trouble helping her. Tenten is touched by the friendship offered to her by her dream world team-mates. They leave, but not before Tenten warns them about the man disguised as a merchant. An explosion goes off in the distance, and the village begins catching on fire. Amegakure shinobi continuously infiltrate the village through a summoning formula. Menma visits Tenten in jail, bringing with him the man disguised as a merchant. He was aware something was going on from looking at his father's documents, and started tailing Tenten when she began acting strange. He hands her weapons' scroll, and tells her to go, having explained the situation to higher-ups on her way to meet her. He explains he somehow understands she's not the Tenten he knows, and that she doesn't belong there. Despite it being a dream world, Tenten offers Menma her help.
Hanzō
 himself attacks the village with his summoned salamander. Menma faces him himself with his full Tailed Beast Mode. Hanzō summons a second salamander, which Tenten decides to fight with the
Treasured Tools of the Sage of Six Paths
 in her possession. The attack on the village is thwarted, and Tenten's team-mates all congratulate her on her performance. Tenten is proud of her own power, and feels like she belongs in the dream world.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Tenten
Yukari Tamura
田村 ゆかり
Tamura Yukari
Danielle Judovits
Menma Namikaze
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Maile Flanagan
Sakura Haruno
Chie Nakamura
中村 千絵
Nakamura Chie
Kate Higgins
Neji Hyūga
Koichi Tochika
遠近 孝一
Tōchika Kōichi
Steve Staley
Rock Lee
Yoichi Masukawa
増川 洋一
Masukawa Yōichi
Brian Donovan
Chōji Akimichi
Kentaro Ito
伊藤 健太郎
Itō Kentarō
Robbie Rist
Ino Yamanaka
Ryoka Yuzuki
柚木 涼香
Yuzuki Ryōka
Colleen O'Shaughnessey
Hinata Hyūga
Nana Mizuki
水樹 奈々
Mizuki Nana
Stephanie Sheh
Kushina Uzumaki
Emi Shinohara
篠原 恵美
Shinohara Emi
Laura Bailey
Kurenai Yūhi
Rumi Ochiai
落合 るみ
Ochiai Rumi
Mary Elizabeth McGlynn
Kotetsu Hagane
Tomoyuki Kono
河野 智之
Kōno Tomoyuki
Liam O'Brien
Izumo Kamizuki
Tomohiro Tsuboi
坪井 智浩
Tsuboi Tomohiro
Richard Cansino
Hanzō of the Salamander
Ikuya Sawaki
沢木 郁也
Sawaki Ikuya
Richard Epcar
Peddler
Kosuke Goto
後藤 光祐
Gotō Kōsuke