"
White Zetsu's Trap
" (
白ゼツの罠
,
Shiro Zetsu no Torappu
) is episode 279 of the
Naruto: Shippūden
 anime.

Synopsis

Team 8
 from
Konohagakure
 is sent to investigate a suspected breach of the
Allied Shinobi Forces
 perimeter and encounters a cave filled with enemy
White Zetsu Army
 forces. Engaging the forces,
Hinata
 sends out a messenger owl to the
Sealing Team
 and she alongside,
Shino
,
Kiba
, and
Akamaru
, hold off the opposition until the team can arrive and seal the cave. When the two members of the sealing team arrive, they immediately begin the process to seal the cave, however, as Team 8 escapes, White Zetsu clones follow, forcing Kiba to
attack
 them. In the process, a lamp is overturned and it lights a trail of oil leading to several crates of
explosive tags
. With Akamaru unable to
douse
 the flames, the crates explode.

Finding one of the two shinobi from the Sealing Team dead, the team quickly uncovers that he was killed after the explosion by an external wound. Mistrust, as to whether the people before them were who they really said, soon starts to spread. When deciding to part ways and search for the next person, a scream is heard. Rushing to the location, they find him dead, clutching a piece of Shino's coat. This leads to even more discourse amongst the team, which ultimately decides to settle things with
rock-paper-scissors
 with the loser being questioned about personal information. When Shino is thought to be the culprit, the other three take him down only for Hinata to be revealed as the impostor. It was, however, revealed that Kiba and Shino had planned this all along using hand signals during rock-paper-scissors and clones to draw out the real culprit. With the enemy uncovered now, Shino attacks him with the
Secret Technique: Insect Tornado
. Having a brief squabble about Kiba's willingness to attack him, the three set out and eventually find Hinata who was unconscious. Discussing what had transpired, the team's drive to destroy the enemy is renewed after they realise that the enemy had been using
Yamato
 to gain personal intel on them; Yamato seemingly has been keeping secrets for each member of the team.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Shino Aburame
Shinji Kawada
川田 紳司
Kawada Shinji
Derek Stephen Prince
Kiba Inuzuka
Kosuke Toriumi
鳥海 浩輔
Toriumi Kōsuke
Kyle Hebert
Hinata Hyūga
Nana Mizuki
水樹 奈々
Mizuki Nana
Stephanie Sheh
Zetsu
Nobuo Tobita
飛田 展男
Tobita Nobuo
Travis Willingham
Shinobi
Shinobu Matsumoto
Taira Kikumoto
松本 忍
菊本 平
Matsumoto Shinobu
Kikumoto Taira