The
White Zetsu Army
 was a large attack force that was created by
Kaguya Ōtsutsuki
, who desired living weapons to combat other members of the
Ōtsutsuki clan
. One hundred thousand White Zetsu made up the majority of
Akatsuki
's military numbers during the
Fourth Shinobi World War
.

Background






Humans caught in the Infinite Tsukuyomi being turned into White Zetsu.



The White Zetsu were originally humans who fell victim to Kaguya's
Infinite Tsukuyomi
 and were
bound
 by the roots of the
God Tree
. Over the course of years,
 the victims morphed into their current forms, having their original personalities and individuality drained away.
 Kaguya created the army in order to combat the threat of her own clan following her betrayal:
two

members
 (
three
 in the anime)
 planned on coming to Earth to complete her work and harvest the planet's
chakra
 for themselves.
 They ultimately never arrived in her lifetime and Kaguya, having degraded into the
Demonic Statue of the Outer Path
, was
sealed
 within the
moon
 by her
two

sons
, while the White Zetsu came to reside inside the Demonic Statue under unknown circumstances.






The developing White Zetsu in Madara's lair.



Centuries later, Madara awakened the
Rinnegan
 and
summoned
 the Demonic Statue out of the moon. In order to survive beyond his natural lifespan, Madara used the statue to cultivate
Hashirama Senju
's DNA into a
non-sentient clone
 contained within a gigantic flowering tree in a cave beneath
Mountains' Graveyard
, and subsequently connected himself to said tree to continuously receive the statue's chakra. Madara believed the White Zetsu that appeared on the tree were clones of Hashirama created as an unintended result of his experiments,
 and implied that
Yin–Yang Release
 was somehow involved in their creation.
 In actuality,
Black Zetsu
 had simply released the White Zetsu stored inside the statue without Madara's knowledge.

Madara later used Hashirama's artificial body to save the life of
Obito Uchiha
 by rebuilding the destroyed right portion of his body, granting him a body similar to that of a White Zetsu.
 Presenting themselves as artificial humans created from the Demonic Statue's power,
White Zetsu
 and
Tobi
 oversaw the young Uchiha's rehabilitation while Madara slept. Later, when
Rin Nohara
 and
Kakashi Hatake
 were attacked by a group of
Kirigakure

shinobi
, Tobi allowed Obito to "
wear
" his body like a suit so that he could leave the cave.
 White Zetsu, whose right half wasn't fully formed, would later be infused with Black Zetsu by Madara, who believed it to be a
manifestation
 of his will.
 The complete Zetsu went on to become a member of Akatsuki, while continuing to serve directly under Obito.

Using the Demonic Statue's chakra, the White Zetsu propagated.
 By the time of the Fourth Shinobi World War, one hundred thousand identical White Zetsu had fully developed and were being stored in a large pool of water beneath the roots of the flowering tree. According to Obito, these were clones of White Zetsu he created using a large amount of the chakra of the seven
tailed beasts
 Akatsuki had
sealed
 inside the statue.
 After
Kabuto Yakushi
 captured
Yamato
, he used his studies of Hashirama's DNA to enhance the White Zetsu's strength, causing them to undergo further development.

Personality

The original batch of White Zetsu created by Kaguya, who each had a distinct appearance, demonstrated a degree of individuality and intelligence, with Tobi claiming they had vocabularies and brains that surpassed those of humans.
 In contrast, the identical White Zetsu that served as Akatsuki's attack force appeared to all have the same personality and mindset, which they shared with the Akatsuki member White Zetsu, whom they referred to as their "original".
 These White Zetsu were also seemingly able to access the original's memories.
 Due to their talkative nature, the White Zetsu were nicknamed "Chatterbox" (
饒舌
,
Jōzetsu
), in contrast to Black Zetsu, who was nicknamed "Wicked Tongue" (
毒舌
,
Dokuzetsu
).

Appearance






The White Zetsu after being enhanced by Kabuto.



Unlike the original White Zetsu and the
parasite clones
 he produces, whose right halves are deformed, the White Zetsu that fought in the war have fully developed faces and bodies. After Kabuto used Yamato to further enhance their abilities, the White Zetsu gained small, spiky protrusions on their shoulders and backs. Though they lack the
Venus flytrap
-like extensions of the original White Zetsu, they have zig-zag patterns running down their midsections and legs, which are able to open in a similar manner and restrain targets. In the anime, the White Zetsu are entirely white, save for their green hair and yellow eyes, whereas in the manga, their bodies are depicted with a light green tint.

A variation of the White Zetsu is shown to be massive in size, with two additional heads embedded in its chest. It also possesses extra arms, which have large scythes for hands.

Abilities






A White Zetsu Army soldier captures Neji with its Venus flytrap extensions.



No longer humans, they do not need to carry out any normal human bodily functions. They also have no need for sleep nor other bodily functions such as breathing in the case of their underwater storage.
 Though they share many vital points as a normal human, they are incapable of bleeding in their natural forms.
 As such they are extremely durable, able to survive two of
Sakura Haruno
's
chakra-enhanced punches
, as well as
Neji Hyūga
's
Gentle Fist Art One Blow Body
.






Several White Zetsu Army soldiers merged together.



All White Zetsu are able to use the
Mayfly
 technique to travel through surfaces for the purpose of spying without leaving a trace. They can open their bodies in a Venus flytrap-like manner to trap their opponents and
absorb their chakra
.
 In the manga, they absorb chakra by simply establishing physical contact, whereas in the anime, they absorb chakra by sucking it in through their mouths.
 This action is so the White Zetsu responsible uses the
Substitute Technique
 to become an exact copy of that person in every detail, able to easily trick close friends and
sensors
 alike, in scenarios ideal for infiltration, covert assassination, and causing distrust among an enemy group. Due to their plant nature, members of the White Zetsu Army can merge into a more plant-like monster for better resistance against Yang-natured chakra.
 In the anime, it was shown that the White Zetsu can also extend the points of their flytrap-like openings and use them to impale enemies, as well as alter the form of their arms to attack.






A White Zetsu Army soldier turning into a tree.



Because of their modifications, their DNA is very similar to Hashirama's, as revealed by
Shizune
 and
Sakura Haruno
's autopsy results, and they are able to use
Wood Release
, albeit on a weaker scale.
 However, through Kabuto's experimentation on
Yamato
, their strength increased to make them presumably more suited for combat with enhanced power. Due to their genetic structure, direct contact with somebody that exudes a powerful life force, such as Naruto in
Nine-Tails Chakra Mode
, causes them to turn into trees.






Zetsus using Assimilate All Creation Technique.



In the anime, the White Zetsu Army showed their capability to
take on the properties
 of any nearby material. When located on the battle on the
Seventh Front
, they took on the characteristics of a special, poisonous, red soil, and were able to use it to their advantage; such as
expelling large quantities of red, poisonous smoke
. However, the adverse effects of this was that they also gained the soil's high conductibility to
lightning
-type attacks.

Years after the war, small amounts of White Zetsu had survived cocooned in various ruins throughout the world. A particular variant of this kind displayed peculiar and unique features. The White Zetsu was massive much like the merged variants of the War, but had scythe-like arms. It could use multiple nature transformations through different faces similar to Kakuzu's Earth Grudge Fear.

Part II

Fourth Shinobi World War: Countdown

Main article:
Fourth Shinobi World War: Countdown

After creating an alliance with Kabuto, Tobi leads him underground and shows Kabuto his army of 100,000 White Zetsu in an underwater cavern beneath the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path.

Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation

Main article:
Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation

Once Tobi finished his preparations for the Fourth Shinobi World War, he had the Zetsu army mobilise to fight the
Allied Shinobi Forces
' 80,000-person strong army. Because of the size of their forces, Tobi had the Zetsu travel below ground, to be led from above by himself to hide their numbers. This was discovered by
Muta Aburame
 and is reported to the various commanders. The
Second Division
, led by
Kitsuchi
, as well as elements from the
Fifth Division
, unearth and attack a detachment of 20,000 White Zetsu Army soldiers travelling directly underneath them. While fighting the Allied Shinobi forces, they began to overwhelm them, allowing several thousand White Zetsu to pass through underground.

Then, off the coast of the
Land of Lightning
, several thousand White Zetsu Army soldiers appeared along with
Kakuzu
,
Hizashi Hyūga
,
Asuma Sarutobi
,
Dan
,
Kinkaku
 and
Ginkaku
 to attack
Darui
's
First Division
, forcing the
Allied Shinobi Forces
 to change their strategy to meet this threat. By the end of first day of battles, the army had already lost 50,000 out of its 100,000 Zetsu,
 leaving Tobi's army at half strength.






A disguised White Zetsu clone killing medical ninja.



During the night, the White Zetsu used the
Substitute Technique
 to sneak behind enemy lines disguised as allied shinobi in order to kill various members of the Allied Shinobi Forces and cause conflict among the opposition. However, assuming the identity of Neji to go after medical ninja, one of the Zetsu was found out and stopped by Sakura. Soon after, along with Sakura and her group believing their enemy's true nature as hybrid clones of Hashirama, the White Zetsu's technique was deduced and reported to HQ.

In the anime,
Team 8
 was sent to investigate a suspected breach of the Allied Shinobi Forces perimeter and encounters a cave filled with White Zetsu. Engaging them,
Hinata Hyūga
 sends out a messenger owl to the Sealing Team and she alongside,
Shino Aburame
,
Kiba Inuzuka
, and
Akamaru
, hold off the opposition until the team can arrive and seal the cave. As Team 8 fall back with the creatures in pursuit, one of the White Zetsu accidentally triggered a explosion in the process. After the explosion, Team 8 regroups and find one of the two shinobi from the Sealing Team dead, the ninja revealed to have been murdered by a surviving White Zetsu that had infiltrated Team 8 in midst the chaos. This causes mutual mistrust among Team 8 until they use a game of
rock-paper-scissors
 to weed out the shape-shifter by having the loser reveal personal information when asked. Though Kiba mistook Shino as the impostor, the plan exposes the White Zetsu fraud, who was impersonating Hinata who was unconscious at the time, before her teammates kill him.






Zetsu clones attempting to capture Naruto Uzumaki.



While
Naruto
 and
Killer B
 confronted several of the White Zetsu Army soldiers at another area, due to his
Yang
 chakra and the creatures' relation to the First Hokage, Naruto's attacks while in
Nine-Tails Chakra Mode
 resonated with the White Zetsu Army soldiers and instantly turned those he made a direct hit on into trees.
 Even after some of the surviving White Zetsus merged to become more resilient to the youth's attack, Naruto merely
cut
 the fused monster in two and
crushed
 it beneath
Gamahiro
. Naruto eventually sent his
clones
 out to the different battlefields and, using his ability to
sense negative emotions
, was able to locate the remainder of the disguised White Zetsu Army soldiers and neutralise them.

Later, in the anime, Omoi goes to the
Seventh Front
, where two thousand White Zetsu killed the Amphibious Search and Destroy Unit, and were after the
Thundercloud Unit
; a supply squad formed by notable children from
Kumogakure
. The Seventh Front was surrounded by a special red soil, which the White Zetsu were able to
take on the properties of
, causing them to gain a red tone and expel a
red, poisonous smokescreen
 from their mouths and bodies. After saving the children,
Omoi
, with Thundercloud Unit's assistance, was able to dispel the smokescreen from the area with the
Lightning Release Co-Operation: Thunder Bomb
 as well as defeat the remaining White Zetsu.

Fourth Shinobi World War: Climax

Main article:
Fourth Shinobi World War: Climax






Several White Zetsu's confront Sasuke Uchiha.



After the second day of war, thanks to the addition of Naruto's efforts and his
new-found ability
, the majority of the White Zetsu were eradicated. However, small factions survived and were ordered to seize B and Naruto before their comrades could reach their location. When Sasuke escaped the
Mountains' Graveyard
, he encountered one of these factions, who demanded to know why he left the hideout. Upon coming to the realisation that he had killed the original White Zetsu, they attacked him. Choosing this time to test his
new powers
 further, he slaughters most of the Zetsu and keeps one alive long enough to
acquire information
 relating to the war.

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Main article:
Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki






A White Zetsu clone giving Madara one of his Rinnegan.



As Madara faced off against the
tailed beasts
, a clone managed to recover the right
Rinnegan
 from where Obito had hidden it. He gives the eye to Madara who also severed his right arm to replace his own.
 After Madara succeeds in subduing the tailed beasts and prepares to remove the
Eight
 and
Nine-Tails
 from their respective
jinchūriki
, he suggests that Madara instead start with the
One-Tail
 for better efficiency, to which Madara agrees on. He subsequently questioned why Gaara had been fighting to help Shukaku, despite the fact that he was no longer his jinchūriki.

He teases Madara about the time the latter needed to seal the tailed beasts, to which Madara responds the rejects of the failed experiment shouldn't be too loud. He answers that there is nothing to wonder about, because they are known as "Chatterbox". Madara asked him about another battle and he reassured Madara that the
insides were good
. He approached
Tobi
 on top of the
giant wood statue
, saying that Naruto stubbornly clung to life by nature of being an Uzumaki, but would be dead soon enough, after losing his tailed beast.
 When the war ended with the Allied Shinobi Forces's victory, Sasuke and Naruto ended the
Infinite Tsukuyomi
, freeing all the victims of its binding. This also caused Tobi to wither away.

New Era






A remnant of the White Zetsu that Team 7 encountered.



While it was believed that all of the White Zetsu had been annihilated, the
Ōtsutsuki clan
 ruins beneath the
Mountains' Graveyard
 housed a handful of White Zetsu until
Konohagakure

shinobi
 discovered and eradicated them fifteen years after the Fourth Shinobi World War.
 However, more of their movement are still spotted according to the
Hokage
.

In response to a
missing-nin
 attack that claimed many young shinobi lives,
Ōnoki
 conducted research on creating artificial soldiers to defend the new generation that had, in his belief, grown weak from peace. To accomplish this, a scientist approached him with a genetic sample of White Zetsu remnants, thus creating five synthetic humans known as
Fabrications
.

In Other Media

Movies

Road to Ninja: Naruto the Movie

Main article:
Road to Ninja: Naruto the Movie

Several White Zetsu Army soldiers
disguised
 as the deceased Akatsuki members were sent to attack Konoha at the beginning of the movie, at the behest of
Tobi
.

Video Games

White Zetsu Army is a playable character in the following video games:

Game name
Japanese release
English release
Naruto Mobile
2016
2016
Naruto: Shinobi Collection Shippū Ranbu
27 July 2015

References