"
White Past: Hidden Ambition
" (
白い過去・秘めた想い
,
Shiroi Kako - Himeta Omoi
) is episode 17 of the original
Naruto
 anime.

Synopsis

Naruto
's chakra rages around him wildly.
Haku
 remarks that chakra usually couldn't be seen, yet it was clearly visible. Naruto, still angered by the "death" of
Sasuke
, had weakened the
seal
 that kept the
Nine-Tailed Demon Fox
's
chakra
 in place. Surging with power, Naruto healed his wounds and attacked, brutally overwhelming Haku, and deflecting his needle attacks with waves of pure chakra. Haku attempts to flee the
circle
, but Naruto sees him and snatches his arm with the speed of the Nine-Tails.

Meanwhile, the battle between
Zabuza
 and
Kakashi
 continues. Kakashi is relieved to sense the seal confining the Nine-Tails had only weakened, and had only let a small portion of the fox's chakra out. He decides to end the battle, Zabuza being curious as to how Kakashi would do that when he can’t find him amongst the mist. Kakashi’s only response to this, is pulling out a
scroll
.

Naruto having grabbed Haku's arm, delivers a powerful punch, sending him through one of the mirrors, simultaneously destroying them all. Naruto rushes at Haku again, ready to deliver another enormous blow. At that moment, Haku's mask comes off to reveal the boy he met in the forest. This causes Naruto to pause his attack. Haku asks Naruto to kill him, as he’s no longer useful to Zabuza, calling himself nothing more than a broken tool. He goes on to explain his past; being born in a small village, and how his parents dearly loved him. However during that time, anyone with a
kekkei genkai
, a bloodline trait, was feared. When Haku was a small boy, he discovered the powers inherited from his mother. Unfortunately, his father witnessed this, and murdered her out of shame. Just as Haku's father was about to kill him too, Haku subconsciously activated his trait, ending his father’s life. A little while after that day, Zabuza found Haku, taking him in and training him in the most advanced ninja skills.

Kakashi finally uses the scroll he pulled out earlier to use
Summoning: Earth Release: Tracking Fang Technique
. Though Kakashi can't see or hear Zabuza, he would smell him out instead with these tracking dogs. Earlier, Kakashi let himself be sliced by Zabuza's blade, covering it in blood. Now wearing the same sword, Zabuza is easier to trace. Kakashi then introduces his only original technique:
Lightning Cutter
.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Maile Flanagan
Sasuke Uchiha
Noriaki Sugiyama
杉山 紀彰
Sugiyama Noriaki
Yuri Lowenthal
Sakura Haruno
Chie Nakamura
中村 千絵
Nakamura Chie
Kate Higgins
Kakashi Hatake
Kazuhiko Inoue
井上 和彦
Inoue Kazuhiko
Dave Wittenberg
Tazuna
Takeshi Aono
青野 武
Aono Takeshi
Kirk Thornton
Zabuza Momochi
Unsho Ishizuka
石塚 運昇
Ishizuka Unshō
Steve Blum
Haku
Mayumi Asano
浅野 まゆみ
Asano Mayumi
Susan Dalian
Haku's mother
Junko Minagawa
皆川 純子
Minagawa Junko
Cindy Robinson