"
Wild Beast Cubs
" (
猛獣の子供
,
Mōjū no Kodomo
) is chapter 17 of the
Boruto: Two Blue Vortex
 manga.

Summary

Sarada
 thinks back to
Sumire
's feelings regarding
Boruto
.
Ryū
 and
Matsuri
 observe the
toad
, which the latter believes Boruto had placed there according to underground trees. Yodo uses her superior hearing to eavesdrop on their conversation, revealing to the others that they are looking for Boruto and Matsuri has
sensory abilities
, stating that it is a matter of when, not if, they are exposed. Konohamaru prepares to go through with the plan, but he notices Sarada's uneasiness. Sarada dismisses it and promises that she will focus. Yodo confirms with Konohamaru that they will be able to rescue Shinki if they recover Ryū's
Thorn Soul Bulb
. Yodo promises to do her best, but Araya warns her not to do anything reckless. The two bicker for a bit, and Konohamaru tries to get their heads back in the game.

Konohamaru, Sarada and Mitsuki casually walk up to Ryū and Matsuri, pretending to not know them and warmly greeting them. As Matsuri lays eyes on Konohamaru, her heart begins beating faster. Konohamaru reveals that they are following Boruto's trail. Konohamaru remembers his conversation with Shikamaru, who is giving him intel. Konohamaru learns from Shikamaru that defeating the Human God Trees will reveal their Thorn Soul Bulbs, and if they are returned to their respective trees, the devoured individuals can be saved. Conversely, if they are unable to retrieve the Thorn Soul Bulbs, they will be used to continue resurrecting Ryū and Matsuri. Hearing this, Konohamaru conjectures that
Hidari
 may have been resurrected as his Thorn Soul Bulb flew off somewhere after he was killed. Konohamaru asks where Shikamaru received this intel, as this is way more information than they would have cobbled together after Boruto's interrogation. Shikamaru simply states that he cannot tell him as it is beyond his clearance. As a toad is secretly revealed under Shikamaru's cloak, Shikamaru reveals a strategy in fighting the Human God Trees. Shikamaru explains that despite the Human God Trees' high combat strength, there is no evidence that they are born inherently evil, comparing them to wild beast cubs that simply react on instinct. Shikamaru orders Konohamaru to befriend the Human God Trees, and then betray and kill them. Konohamaru's heart reels, and Shikamaru tells him to not allow this, as if he considers them nothing but an enemy, he should be able to do this. Knowing that
Naruto
 would advise against this, Shikamaru states that he is not Naruto, and he is simply acting to save humanity.

Konohamaru introduces himself and his team to Ryū and Matsuri, and the two Human God Trees do the same, albeit Matsuri is visibly shy. Since they have a common goal, Konohamaru advises they join forces. While Konohamaru inspects the fallen toad, Mitsuki finds one of Boruto's metal symbols on the ground. Konohamaru suggests combing the area for more evidence, telling Sarada and Mitsuki to check elsewhere. Konohamaru asks the visibly shaken Matsuri if she's feeling sick, and she remains quiet, mentally confused at herself. Ryu teams up with Sarada and Mitsuki while Konohamaru and Matsuri leave to inspect another area. As Ryu walks with Sarada and Mitsuki, he is relieved to learn how friendly they are, stating that
Jura
, his boss, has high respect for Konohagakure for a reason. Ryu expressed his desire to slaughter any shinobi he ran into, so he is glad they started talking first. In their past conversation, Shikamaru informs Konohamaru of his reason to choose him to head to Sunagakure: Matsuri bears romantic feelings towards him, and it is an emotion she is not aware of, which will leave her in a state of turmoil, which will allow Konohamaru the opening to kill her. He orders Konohamaru to take charge of the situation with the goal to separate Ryū and Matsuri should they appear together, as it is not favorable for them to fight them together. Konohamaru is watching Matsuri internally battling herself, offering to have a seat with her to talk about it. Matsuri is confused at the emotion she is feeling.

Koji asks Ada to update him on the current events with her
Senrigan
, assuring her that
Mamushi
 will not see her as he is currently at their base. Ada does so as Boruto and Koji remain on standby in a separate location. Koji updates Boruto on Konohamaru successfully separating Ryū and Matsuri. The most ideal plan would be if Sarada, Mitsuki, Yodo and Araya take down Ryū while Konohamaru is distracting Matsuri, and they all team up to take down Matsuri. Boruto asks what the probability of them failing is, and Koji snidely answers that they will likely not fail. Boruto knows Koji is lying, but Koji forbids Boruto from involving himself, as just like with
Himawari
, if he were to become involved, Jura will make a move, which will result in Boruto's death.

Jura is seen inside a Konohagakure bookstore, casually shopping as the store clerk nervously stares at him. Shikamaru is alerted of Jura's presence, but he orders them to not panic and treat him as a regular civilian. Jura sets a large pile of books on the store counter with
Ryo
, telling the clerk to keep the change as an advance for his future purchases. Visibly nervous, the clerk agrees and wishes Jura a good day.

Meanwhile,
Amado
 is inside his office putting a cigarette in his mouth. Before he can light it,
Kawaki
 swipes it from his mouth, immediately pinning Amado to the wall. Amado expected Kawaki to visit him, having eavesdropped on his conversation with Boruto, and Kawaki orders him to draw out all of his powers.