This ability allows a user to materialise their
will
 (
意志
,
ishi
) itself into a physical form.

Usage

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki was able to use her chakra to create life to fulfill her desires. In an attempt to retrieve the chakra bestowed upon her
two

sons
, she imparted her will upon the
God Tree
 and  — along with all the people tethered to it —  created what then became the
Ten-Tails
.
 Titanic in size, she was able to use its power to fight her children for a length of months.

Immediately prior to being
sealed
 by Hagoromo and Hamura, Kaguya Ōtsutsuki formulated a plan that would result in her eventual revival. To accomplish this, she created a sentient being known as
Black Zetsu
, which would spend centuries fulfilling her desire.
 Created as a malleable construct, Black Zetsu is capable of controlling the actions of others by
coating
 itself over their bodies and taking possession of them.
 Once the
remnants
 of her chakra were finally
reunited
, Black Zetsu was able to revive her within a new host, Madara Uchiha. It was also capable of manipulating the
husk
 of the Ten-Tails, extracting a number of
White Zetsu
 from it.

Madara Uchiha

Madara Uchiha was also capable of using this ability. Moments prior to his death, he attempted to infuse his will into the right half of White Zetsu, seemingly creating Black Zetsu, which he referred to as a weaker version of himself; in actuality, Black Zetsu merely made it look like it was being created as part of its plan.

Madara was actually able to impart his will into the
black rod
 that emerged from the
flowering tree
 he was attached to in his old age. Revealing it to
Obito
, Madara claimed that it was a physical manifestation of his will and that it should be used when performing the
Six Paths Technique
.

On a later occasion, following his
resurrection
, Madara caused a number of these black rods to emerge from Obito's artificial right half, which became entirely coated in a black substance similar to Black Zetsu.
 This allowed Madara to remotely control Obito's actions using his
chakra
, as well as fire black rods out of his body as projectiles, though Obito was ultimately able to resist his control.

References