This article is about the chapter. For the episode, see
Hole
.

"
Windhole
" (
風穴
,
Kazaana
,
Viz:
 Hole) is chapter 629 of the original
Naruto
 manga.

Summary

The
Tenpenchii
 technique used by the
Ten-Tails
 culminates disastrously, still causing powerful twisters and lightning strikes, leading a
Susanoo
-clad
Madara
 to assume that most of the
Allied Shinobi Forces
 had been wiped out by the attack. However, as the battlefield clears, the shinobi are all revealed to be alive and well, having been protected by their respective shrouds. Before the seemingly confused Ten-Tails,
Naruto
 stands bleeding and exhausted, but still smiling confidently. Looking on, the Ten-Tails sees the images of the
tailed beasts
 (sans
Gyūki
 and
Shukaku
) behind Naruto, and ultimately a
silhouette
 with the
Rinnegan
 staring back at him. Shocked, the beast undergoes another transformation, as the shrouds vanish from around the
shinobi
, and Naruto falls to one knee, very fatigued. Madara — who notes that the fight had started to bore him, and he had already found
something else
 to preoccupy his time — turns in time to see the Alliance rally around Naruto, providing a defence for him while
Sakura
 begins to
heal
 him. Elsewhere, as
Kakashi
 and
Obito
 enter
Kamui's dimension
, Kakashi is the first to regain his footing and attack, but stops just short of driving his
Lightning Cutter
 through Obito's heart. Trying to speak sense to his former friend, even though Obito decries his actions and tries to play on his conscience, Kakashi notes that he had long since realised that Obito was trying to overlap his old self with Naruto. Obito, however, notes that he was doing it for the exact opposite reason and then declares that he did not wage a war in the world just for
Rin
. With this, Obito phases through Kakashi's Lightning Cutter, then recreates the scene where Kakashi had killed Rin in the same manner. He then reveals that he knew the truth of how
Kirigakure
 had made Rin into
Isobu
's
jinchūriki
 with the sole intention of destroying
Konohagakure
, and how Rin had impaled herself on Kakashi's Lightning Cutter in order to protect the village. He then states that it was the system of the villages, and the
shinobi
 that he intended to destroy because no good came of it. With this, Obito announces that he is incapable of feeling pain, and shows Kakashi that there was no heart in his chest, just a windhole which was caused by the hell of this world.

Trivia

In the original release, Shukaku's chakra was seen within Naruto, alongside the other tailed beasts. The tanuki was, however, removed in the tankōbon release.