This article is about the episode.  For other uses, see
Wind (disambiguation)
.

"
Wind
" (
旋風
,
Kaze
) is episode 55 of the
Naruto: Shippūden
 anime.

Synopsis

Naruto
 is standing in a field with
Kakashi
, excited to begin training with his old sensei again. Kakashi explains that the secret behind creating a new technique unique to Naruto would be to
change the form
 of his
chakra
 and then apply his chakra's
nature
 to it. Kakashi starts off by asking Naruto to produce his
Rasengan
, which he does. Kakashi tells Naruto that his Rasengan is the perfect example of changing the form of chakra, as the technique literally requires the user to compress and form their chakra into a sphere. Naruto believes that since he has already accomplished half of the steps, that the rest should be easy. However, Naruto does not know what type of chakra he possesses.

Kakashi explains that there are five elemental natures that most people's chakra falls into -
Fire
,
Wind
,
Earth
,
Water
 and
Lightning
. Kakashi decides to show an example to Naruto by explaining the concept behind his
Chidori
; by forming chakra in the palm of his hand, he applies his lightning nature to that chakra, thus creating a lightning-based technique. Naruto realises that
Sasuke
 must possess two chakra types since he is able to use both fire and lightning-based techniques. Naruto wonders what type he has, and Kakashi decides to find out. Using litmus papers grown from a tree that absorbs chakra, Kakashi gives them to Naruto. He explains that a lightning nature would cause the paper to wrinkle, while wind would rip it; fire would burn it, water would make it wet, and earth would cause it to crumble. Naruto takes the paper in his hand and closes his eyes as he focuses in chakra into. After opening his eyes, he sees that the paper has torn in two, and Kakashi confirms that Naruto possesses a natural affinity for wind-natured chakra.

Yamato
 suddenly arrives, and Naruto asks him what chakra affinity he possesses. Yamato showcases his
Earth Release: Earth-Style Rampart
 and his
Water Release: Waterfall Basin Technique
 to create a waterfall, much to Naruto's admiration. He explains that he possesses both Earth and Water type chakra, and while a ninja who possesses two chakra natures can use one or the other without relative difficulty, combining the two is another story. Kakashi and Yamato explain to Naruto that the latter's
Wood Release
 is a combination of Earth and Water. Kakashi tells Naruto that only those who possess a special
kekkei genkai
 are able to combine two nature transformations, citing
Haku
 and his
Ice Release
 as an example. Naruto then questions what Yamato is doing there, and the captain explains that he is there at Kakashi's request. In order to cut down their training time significantly, Kakashi claims that Naruto must use
shadow clones
. Since Naruto is able to retain the shadow clone's memories and experiences after dispelling them, creating
multiple shadow clones
 and teaching each one of them would significantly reduce Naruto's training time.

Naruto initially believes that this is Kakashi's secret to his strength, but Kakashi claims that this would be his first time testing out his theory, since he cannot create as many shadow clones or maintain them for long like Naruto can. Naruto is surprised by this, and Kakashi tells Naruto that he is able to do so since he possesses four times more chakra than he does, adding that if he were to use the
Nine-Tailed Fox
's chakra as well, he would have a hundred times more chakra than him. Yamato, however, reminds Naruto that by depleting his chakra, and then accessing the Nine-Tails', he may risk unleashing the fox's spirit, hence why Kakashi had requested his presence, since Yamato can suppress the
tailed beast
. Naruto, remembering how he had hurt Sakura while under the fox's influence, enthusiastically thanks Yamato for his help.

Naruto creates multiple shadow clones as Kakashi gives them all a leaf, with the task of using their wind-nature chakra to tear the leaf in half. Naruto is astonished to learn that he has managed to cause a slight tear in his leaf, and Kakashi remarks that perhaps Naruto's training would not take as long as he thought.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Maile Flanagan
Sakura Haruno
Chie Nakamura
中村 千絵
Nakamura Chie
Kate Higgins
Kakashi Hatake
Kazuhiko Inoue
井上 和彦
Inoue Kazuhiko
Dave Wittenberg
Yamato
Rikiya Koyama
小山 力也
Koyama Rikiya
Troy Baker
Fifth Hokage: Tsunade
Masako Katsuki
勝生 真沙子
Katsuki Masako
Debi Mae West