Wood Release
 (
木遁
,
Mokuton
,
Viz:
 Wood Style) is a
nature transformation

kekkei genkai
, a combination of
Earth
 and
Water Release
.
 It was famously used by
Hashirama Senju
, and in fact is not known to have naturally occurred in anyone else, with the exception of the
Ten-Tails
, whose true form is the
God Tree
, leading to it being regarded as impossible to use without having his cells.
 Because of Wood Release's power and versatility, there have been various efforts to reproduce it after Hashirama's death.
 Wood Release techniques are commonly affiliated with the Snake
hand seal
.

Usage

At its simplest, Wood Release allows the user to create wood, essentially converting their
chakra
 into a source of life.
 At its greatest, mighty trees of various size and shape can be created. The vegetation can sprout from the user's body or grow from the surroundings;
 Hashirama
created a forest
 that served as a foundation for
Konohagakure
, contributing to his selection as First
Hokage
.
 Wooden constructs can also be created, ranging in complexity from
cages
 to
complete houses
.
 It is not necessary that the created wood take any identifiable form, allowing users to focus on its inherent pliability to
ensnare targets
 or its durability for
brute force attacks
.

Wood Release can produce very detailed, ornate constructs.
Wood Release: Transformation
 essentially creates a costume around the user, allowing them to convincingly pass as another person.
 By using
senjutsu
, Hashirama could create a
gigantic, many-armed wooden statue
 that he fully controlled; its
barrage of punches
 were chiefly responsible for the
Valley of the End
's formation.
 Wood Release's most versatile application is the
Wood Clone Technique
, which makes a fully-functional duplicate of the user that is indistinguishable from the original and is even capable of performing other
jutsu
.

The Wood Release was also equally famous for its power to
manipulate, suppress, and/or absorb
 a target's chakra, Hashirama's mastery of this ability earning him recognition as one of the few people able to fully control a tailed beast.
 This would be done by ensnaring a target with the Wood Release and upon such physical contact would then control the chakra until they were finally too weak to escape.
 Hashirama's usage of this skill let him subdue many of the tailed beasts, keeping them under his control and allowed him to distribute several to the early
hidden villages
.

Users

Hashirama possessed Wood Release naturally, with it being documented Hashirama alone as mastering Wood Release
ninjutsu
.
 None of his descendants are known to have inherited his Wood Release,
 nor is he known to have inherited Wood Release from anyone; in the anime, his ancestor,
Asura Ōtsutsuki
, could perform Wood Release.
 Because of Wood Release's sheer usefulness, there have been various efforts to replicate it. In the anime, Konoha sanctioned several of these attempts, but all met with disastrous failure and further study was forbidden.
 Part of the difficulty lies in the vitality of Hashirama's cells, which can overwhelm and potentially kill those who try to use them.

Decades after Hashirama died,
Orochimaru
 exhumed his body and infused sixty child test subjects with cells harvested from the remains in the hopes that one would prove able to use Wood Release. Only
Yamato
 survived the process.
 Yamato became Hashirama's genetic double and thus could use Wood Release, but his version pales in comparison to Hashirama's. Most notably, he relies on the aid of
Hashirama's necklace
 to suppress jinchūriki,
 something that is difficult for him otherwise.

Orochimaru also developed a method of infusing Hashirama's cells into part of a subject's body in order to grant them Wood Release. One such infusion was given to
Danzō Shimura
, applied to his
specialised right arm
.
 Danzō's Wood Release is quite taxing to perform and crude in function, for which reason he avoids using it directly;
 he more often uses Hashirama's cells to prolong the use of his implanted
Sharingan
.

Kabuto Yakushi
 later furthers Orochimaru's research, enabling him to apply a graft of Hashirama's cells to
Madara Uchiha
's
reincarnated body
.
 Madara's Wood Release is much more extensive than Danzō's, being similar in scale and power to Hashirama's.
 In both Danzō's and Madara's cases, a replica of Hashirama's face grows on their body.

While he was alive, Madara acquired a sample of Hashirama's flesh. He initially applied it to himself in order to heal the injuries he received from Hashirama. Decades later, after acquiring the
Rinnegan
, Madara combined the flesh sample with the
Demonic Statue of the Outer Path
 to produce a
mindless clone of Hashirama
.
 From this clone he could harvest a substance capable of replacing lost limbs,
 giving recipients, such as
Obito Uchiha
, limited Wood Release abilities.
 Madara used this same substance to make the
White Zetsu Army
, rendering each Zetsu an application of Wood Release.
 Orochimaru, by
taking over
 one of these White Zetsu,
 finally gains Wood Release for himself.

Moegi Kazamatsuri
 is able to use Wood Release in adulthood,
 but it's not known how.

Presumably due to being the incarnations of a
Ten-Tails
, Jura could use Wood Release, with his jutsu being identified as from the group of sentient God Trees,
 implying the four of them have access to the nature transformation.

Trivia

"
Mokuton-no-jutsu
" is a real-life ninja art where the user climbs a tree and camouflages themselves within the foliage.

Hashirama possessed a
Regeneration Ability
, which passively healed all of his injuries.
 The ability itself was not Wood Release and it has never been stated to be part of his kekkei genkai, but efforts to reproduce his Wood Release also reproduce this Regeneration Ability.
 In addition, people with Hashirama's genetic tissue transplanted also no longer required any food or water to survive. However, it is also unknown if this trait is related or if Hashirama himself was also endowed with the latter.

Also, it is unknown if
Naruto
 gained this self-sustenance capacity or the Wood Release from his own artificial arm of Hashirama' genes. However, against
Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki
, Naruto erected a wall seemingly from a root of a God Tree to protect Boruto.

In the anime, Hashirama left behind a scroll detailing his various Wood Release techniques. Danzō later obtained this scroll and gave it to Yamato in the hopes that he would one day refine his Wood Release to Hashirama's level.

In
Akatsuki Hiden
, earth and water natures are also components in
Mud Release
. Because Wood Release is so much more famous, few people have ever heard of Mud Release.

In the novelisation of
Boruto: Naruto the Movie
,
Katasuke
 uses Wood Release through his
Shinobi Gauntlet
. His Wood Release is in turn
absorbed
 by
Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki
.

References