"
Writhe
" (
うごめく
,
Ugomeku
) is episode 56 of the
Naruto: Shippūden
 anime.

Synopsis

Naruto
 continues with his
chakra
 nature training, with
Yamato
 on standby, although he can only manage to cause some leaves to tear.
Kakashi
 tells him to dispel his clones in order to gain the cumulative knowledge, but after Naruto almost faints, he also mentions that Naruto would gain cumulative fatigue. Not wanting to give up when he feels so close, Naruto uses the
Multiple Shadow Clone Technique
 to resume his training once more, this time with all the shadow clones possessing the prior knowledge and experience. Struck with a thought, Naruto asks Kakashi whether there are any other
shinobi
 in
Konoha
 who possess
Wind Release
, in order for him to ask them for advice. Kakashi tells him that he does know one person who does, who would most likely be playing shōgi at the moment.

At the same time,
Asuma Sarutobi
 and
Shikamaru
 are playing shōgi, with the winner having to pay for
Team Asuma
's next post-win barbecue. Asuma loses the game, but Shikamaru's victory is cut short by the arrival of Naruto, who wishes to have Asuma give him tips on wind-natured chakra. Shikamaru is in disbelief that Naruto is attempting
chakra nature
 training, claiming it to be too difficult for Naruto to master. Asuma himself is surprised that Naruto is a wind nature type, but agrees to give advice if Naruto is willing to pick up Team Asuma's tab on their next dinner. After checking
Gama-chan
, his frog purse, Naruto claims he has just enough money to do so, and agrees. Asuma produces his
Chakra Blades
, and infuses them with his wind-type chakra. Naruto attempts to do so as well, albeit not to the same degree as Asuma's, the latter claiming that Naruto should grind his chakra against one another. Naruto questions why one would infuse their chakra into blades when the blades are already sharp as is. Asuma tells Naruto to throw the blades at the trees; when Naruto does so, it hits a tree, but Asuma's goes through the tree and penetrates a boulder. He tells Naruto that he was holding back and that he could have gone through the boulder as well. Naruto enthusiastically thanks Asuma for his advice, which Asuma promises to offer if Naruto is willing to pick the team's dinner bill. Naruto dispels himself, much to Shikamaru's surprise, revealing himself to have been nothing more than a shadow clone. Shikamaru adds that Asuma was cruel for passing on the bill to Naruto, due to
Chōji Akimichi
's appetite.

In Tsunade's office,
Shizune
 notifies
Tsunade
 regarding an assault on a neighbouring village in the
Land of Fire
, which she believes to be the work of
Amegakure
. Tsuande is infuriated that one of the allied nations would risk starting a war by attacking another nation and asks for Asuma's team. Shizune brings up her concern over keeping Naruto in the village in the event that it was the
Akatsuki
, and Tsunade decides to send him out on a D-ranked mission regarding grave robbers. Meanwhile, The Naruto shadow clone returns to the clearing and shares the advice with the other Naruto's, unaware that
Sai
 is watching him and drawing his likeness. Naruto manages to use Asuma's advice to grind his chakra against one another, and him and his shadow clones manage to tear their leaves in two. Feeling elated at his success, Naruto dispels the clones to acquire their experience, although the combined fatigue causes him to pass out. Kakashi catches the unconscious Naruto, and Sai, along with
Sakura
, who had joined at the last moment, come rushing out. After asking if Naruto is alright, Sakura notifies Kakashi that the
team
 is wanted by Tsunade.

At the
Yamanaka flower shop
, Asuma buys a bouquet of flowers, although he doesn't reveal to whom.
Ino
 tells him to say hi to
Kurenai
 for her, causing Asuma to go red and wonder how she found out. Shikamaru and Chōji also see Asuma step out of the store with flowers and they tell him to wish Kurenai well. Asuma asks how they know, and Shikamaru tells him that despite his efforts to hide their relationship, everybody is already aware of it. Chōji prods Shikamaru to move on to more pressing matters, and Shikamaru notifies Asuma and Ino that the entire team is being tasked to go out on a mission by Tsunade.

Team Asuma arrives at Tsunade's office, where the
Hokage
 debriefs them on their mission and notifies the team that the Akatsuki may be involved. She tells them all to take great care, and dismisses them. On a rooftop, Asuma stares longingly at Kurenai, who is in her room, but decides against approaching her and instead prepares to set off with his team. They notice Naruto, Sakura, Sai and Yamato heading off on a mission as a well, with Naruto being irritated that his training was interrupted for a mission.
Konohamaru
 and the rest of
Team Ebisu
 pass by, having caught another cat as per their mission. He wishes Naruto and Uncle Asuma well on their mission, prompting to Naruto to wonder why Konohamaru referred to Asuma as his uncle. Shikamaru notifies him that Asuma is the
Third Hokage
's son and hence Konohamaru's actual uncle. Naruto is surprised to learn of this, as are Ino and Chōji. Asuma dismisses his parentage as no big deal, but Naruto tells him that he feels like he has a special bond with Asuma since they share the same chakra nature type, and that the bond is strengthened by the fact that Asuma is the son of the Third Hokage. As Team Yamato begin to depart on their mission, Asuma reminds Naruto of his advice and asks Yamato to protect Naruto.

Back in Tsunade's office, Kakashi reports on Naruto's training methods and is given a separate mission by the Hokage. Meanwhile, a group of individuals look upon the devastating aftermath of an attacked village, stating that the Land of Fire will rise to the top once more, albeit only after Konohagakure is destroyed.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Maile Flanagan
Sakura Haruno
Chie Nakamura
中村 千絵
Nakamura Chie
Kate Higgins
Sai
Satoshi Hino
日野 聡
Hino Satoshi
Benjamin Diskin
Yamato
Rikiya Koyama
小山 力也
Koyama Rikiya
Troy Baker
Kakashi Hatake
Kazuhiko Inoue
井上 和彦
Inoue Kazuhiko
Dave Wittenberg
Asuma Sarutobi
Jurota Kosugi
小杉 十郎太
Kosugi Jūrōta
Doug Erholtz
Shikamaru Nara
Shotaro Morikubo
森久保 祥太郎
Morikubo Shōtarō
Tom Gibis
Ino Yamanaka
Ryoka Yuzuki
柚木 涼香
Yuzuki Ryōka
Colleen O'Shaughnessey
Chōji Akimichi
Kentaro Ito
伊藤 健太郎
Itō Kentarō
Robbie Rist
Fifth Hokage: Tsunade
Masako Katsuki
勝生 真沙子
Katsuki Masako
Debi Mae West
Konohamaru
Ikue Otani
大谷 育江
Ōtani Ikue
Colleen O'Shaughnessey
Shizune
Keiko Nemoto
根本 圭子
Nemoto Keiko
Megan Hollingshead
Furido
Kazuya Nakai
中井 和哉
Nakai Kazuya
Pete Sepenuk