This article is about the jinchūriki and Mizukage. For the anime-only character, see
Yagura
.

Yagura Karatachi
 (
枸橘やぐら
,
Karatachi Yagura
) was the
jinchūriki
 of the Three-Tails,
Isobu
 and the
Fourth
Mizukage
 (
四代目水影
,
Yondaime Mizukage
,
literally meaning:
 Fourth Water Shadow) of
Kirigakure
. Yagura is chiefly remembered for a bloody, despotic reign that contributed to Kirigakure being well known as the "Bloody Mist".

Background

As a child, Yagura took part in the village's barbaric ritual where
Academy students
 would be forced to kill each other in order to graduate.
 Following the Three-Tails' revival after being killed in
Rin Nohara
, the tailed beast was sealed within a young Yagura and he learned to control its powers over the following years.
 As a jinchūriki, he became known as the third person to achieve full control over a tailed beast.
 Yagura, being the strongest shinobi in his village at that time, was elected as the Fourth Mizukage. In the anime, he effectively united the various islands of the
Land of Water
 under his leadership.






Yagura being defeated by Itachi.



In the anime, when two members of
Akatsuki
 infiltrated the Land of Water, Yagura joined a team of
hunter-nin
 to apprehend them. The hunter-nin all died during the battle, but Yagura was able to kill
Jūzō Biwa
 by using a
version 2
 form; Jūzō's partner,
Itachi Uchiha
, immobilised Yagura with
Amaterasu
 so that he could escape.
 At some point, Yagura killed
Iwabee Yuino
's grandfather.






Yagura being confronted by Akatsuki.



Around this time, a
masked man
 (who claimed to be
Madara Uchiha
) took control of Yagura, effectively gaining control over the village. In the anime, this confrontation took place in an encounter with Obito,
Pain
, and
Konan
.
 During his reign, he became widely known for his hand in various crimes such as exploiting money from the weak and his zero-tolerance against any dissent in the village, reinforcing its nickname as "Village of the Bloody Mist" (
血霧の里
,
Chigiri no Sato
). According to one of the
Boruto
 novels, the masked man used his control of Yagura to steal money, information, and other supplies from Kiri for use by Akatsuki. This motivated the tyranny of Bloody Mist, in order to cover up and compensate for the stolen resources.
 After
Kisame Hoshigaki
 killed
Fuguki Suikazan
 for leaking intel to other villages, Yagura commended Kisame for killing the traitor, before "Madara" revealed that he was manipulating the Mizukage.

His tyrannical reign led many in Kiri to believing he was being manipulated,
 as well as other villagers wanting him to be executed.

Zabuza Momochi
 was one such individual who came to disagree with Yagura's reign, to which he led a coup d'etat that ended with a failed attempt on his life.
 Eventually,
Ao
's
Byakugan
 managed to dispel Tobi's genjutsu, which had a fatal effect on the Fourth Mizukage shortly afterwards.
 In the anime, Kirigakure was still grieving over Yagura's death shortly before the joint
Chūnin Exams
.

Although Yagura died shortly after Tobi's hold over him was broken, he did sire a child prior to his death, who years later went on to have
Kagura
.

Personality

Yagura seems to be very formal, outspoken and composed in an almost diplomatic manner as seen when he welcomed Naruto on behalf of all the jinchūriki and tailed beasts. He does, however, have an exuberant and defensive side as seen by his exasperated outburst at
Naruto Uzumaki
 for thinking he was weaker and younger than him, who had died before experiencing the world as well as ignoring what he was saying. Yagura is also proud of his accomplishment as a Mizukage, claiming to be distinguished in his life.
 Also, Yagura was very talkative and curious, breaking out of his formality, asking Naruto how it was to kiss
Sasuke Uchiha
 (however, this appeared to be more in the vein of mocking Naruto over curiosity given his annoyed demeanour at the time).

Having been placed under Tobi's genjutsu during his reign as Mizukage, however, Yagura became a tyrant known to instill fear throughout the village; committing various crimes against them and having absolutely no tolerance for
shinobi
 he deems traitors to the village. He also held grudges against them, such as Jūzō. He was ruthless in battle, refusing mercy to Itachi and Jūzō for challenging him, and was rather direct in battle, as he turned into Version 2 rather quickly to kill his opponents.

Appearance








Yagura was a young-looking adult,
 though rather short for his age. He had short, messy, grey hair, which fell over the right side of his face and spiked up on the left. He also had pupilless pink eyes and what seemed to be a stitch-like scar running from under his left eye, all the way down his cheek. His attire included a grey, sleeveless shirt with the Kiri
forehead protector
 attached to the front, as well as a short-sleeved mesh armour, which he wore a green poncho. He also wore a turquoise sash around his waist, paired with a matching green apron over his pants and a pair of brown boots. Along with it, he would carry a club with uneven sized hooks, which bared a green flower on the larger end.

Abilities






A reincarnated Yagura possessing the Sharingan and Rinnegan.



Yagura was once the most powerful shinobi in his village, which led to his election as the Fourth Mizukage. He also mastered Isobu's power at a young age, becoming a perfect jinchūriki.
 In the anime, he was able to simultaneously fight Itachi and Jūzō, two members of Akatsuki, killing the latter and nearly killing the former.

Yagura was always seen carrying a
club
 with uneven sized hooks and a green flower on the larger end, implying skills in
bōjutsu
. In the anime, he was shown able to fend off Jūzō Biwa's assault with
Kubikiribōchō
 using his club.
 After his
reincarnation
, serving as one of Tobi's
Six Paths of Pain
, Yagura was seen with both the Sharingan and Rinnegan. Combined with the perceptual and predictive abilities of the Sharingan, and the shared field of vision ability of the Rinnegan, Yagura is able to battle more effectively and precisely. Just like the rest of the Kage, Yagura was capable of using the
Summoning Technique
, although what he was capable of calling upon is unknown.

Ninjutsu

Nature Transformation






Yagura using Water Release Ninjutsu with his weapon.



Yagura was able to incorporate his large, hook-ended club into his
Water Release

ninjutsu
, which allowed him to create
water mirrors
 that can reflect attacks by rotating the "mirror" 90°, causing the reflections to emerge and materialise from the mirror to collide with the mirrored targets. As these reflections use the exact same
technique
 as their counterpart — regardless of its type — they repel all attacks successfully. However, upon contact, the reflections disperse into water. In the anime, he also was proficient in
Wind Release
, able to swiftly dispel a thick fog with a
strong gust
.

Jinchūriki Transformations

Main article:
Jinchūriki Forms






Yagura in his Version 2 form.



As the Three-Tails' jinchūriki, Yagura was granted a significant amount of chakra and stamina from the beast. He was also one of the few people regarded to have achieved full control over their respective beast.
 He displayed a partial transformation into the Three-Tails, being able to manifest one of its tails.
 Furthermore, when attacked and immobilised by B's
clone
, Yagura transformed into his Version 2 form to escape being
sealed
. As such, he could perform the Tailed Beast's ultimate technique, the
Tailed Beast Ball
. In the anime, Yagura had enough control over this form to prove it was powerful enough to survive
Amaterasu
, albeit Yagura was left severely injured.
 In this form Yagura was able to perform
Coral Palm
, a technique which causes corals to grow on any surface he chooses, when used on opponents, it restricts their movement and eventually immobilises them.
 When forced to transform into his
full Three-Tails form
, Yagura was able to move with both tremendous speed and force by simply
curling himself

up into a ball
. Even with a small capacity Tailed Beast Ball, Yagura is able to harness all the power into one spot in which he can fire to cause severe damage.

Part II

Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation

Main article:
Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation






Yagura reincarnated, alongside the other jinchūriki.



In preparation for the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, Yagura was reincarnated by
Kabuto Yakushi
 to fight against the
Allied Shinobi Forces
, where he was mobilised alongside the other deceased
jinchūriki
. As dawn broke on the second day of the war, it was revealed that
Tobi
 had turned the reincarnated jinchūriki into his own customised
Six Paths of Pain
, with each having a
Rinnegan
 and
Sharingan
 in place of their left and right eyes respectively. Each jinchūriki also had their particular tailed beast resealed within them and a
chakra receiver
 embedded into their body.

Fourth Shinobi World War: Climax

Main article:
Fourth Shinobi World War: Climax






Tobi mobilises his Six Paths of Pain.



Yagura later travelled together with Tobi, in pursuit of
Naruto
 and
Killer B
. Encountering their targets, the reincarnated jinchūriki were sent into battle. After the enemy evaded
Rōshi
's
attack
, Yagura used his
Water Release: Water Mirror Technique
 to counter their attacks; repelling them momentarily. However, when this initial assault failed, he, like the others, unleashes the power of their respective
tailed beast
 by materialising the first of its tails. Incapacitated in the wake of the
Eight-Tails
'
devastating attack
, after B's recent transformation, Yagura was then restrained by the latter's
sealing technique
. However, before the technique's completion, he managed to escape by adopting his
Version 2
 form, where he then proceeds to
strike
 Naruto from behind and covering him in coral.






Yagura alongside the other transformed jinchūriki.



Regrouping with the other reincarnated jinchūriki, after
Kakashi Hatake
 and
Might Guy
's intervention, Yagura charged past the pair towards Naruto. Rallying once again, he along with the other jinchūriki prepare to confront the two
Konohagakure

jōnin
, after Han's previous
attack
 was
thwarted
 by Kakashi. After
Son Gokū
 was resealed into the
Demonic Statue of the Outer Path
, Yagura was forced to enter his full Three-Tails form, as Tobi prepared to go all-out. Unleashing a
Tailed Beast Ball
 along with the others, the jinchūriki instead resorted to a direct assault when these attacks are deflected by Naruto, only to then be repelled as the latter adopted his
Tailed Beast Mode
. In the resulting chaos, Yagura evaded the plummeting
Seven-Tails
 by rolling into a ball, before attempting to run over the Nine-Tails. However, he was stopped by the Eight-Tails' grasp, but once freed, the rival beasts regrouped and prepare a collaborative Tailed Beast Ball, launching it towards their opponents only to have it diverted by an opposing one.






Yagura, alongside the other jinchūriki and tailed beasts, greets Naruto.



As Naruto attempted to remove the opposition's chakra receivers in the ensuing blast, Naruto entered the joint consciousness of the tailed beasts, where Yagura greeted and thanked him for his efforts on behalf of the others. Shocked by Naruto's tearful reaction to his belief that Yagura was a child younger than he was and as such had not experienced the world before dying, he desperately tried to correct Naruto and regain his attention. Once achieved, he introduced himself alongside his tailed beast,
Isobu
. After Isobu was resealed into the
Demonic Statue of the Outer Path
, Yagura and the other jinchūriki's corpses were collected by B and held in the Gyūki's tentacles. With the release of the Impure World Reincarnation, Yagura and the others were enveloped in a light of sorts before their bodies start to deconstruct and his soul returned to the afterlife, but not before waving Naruto and B goodbye.

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Main article:
Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes






The deceased Kage summoning Team 7 and the tailed beasts.



Subsequent to
Kaguya Ōtsutsuki
 being
sealed
 by Naruto and Sasuke, he and the other deceased
Kage
 were summoned from the
Pure Land
 by
Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki
 to aid him and the
Hokage
 in
summoning

Team 7
, the
tailed beasts
 and
Madara Uchiha
 from
Kaguya's dimension
. Later, his and the other Kage's souls were returned to the Pure Land.

Legacy

Yagura's legacy in the shinobi world is a very dark one, still being viewed as a monster decades after his death; even when it was exposed that he was being manipulated, it did little to redeem his reputation. As Kiri continued to modernise and have a more peaceful relationship with the rest of the world, the citizens' hatred for him lived on. It was so great that they even mistreated his
descendants
. According to one of the
Boruto
 novels, Yagura's very name still strikes fear among the villagers because of its connections to the horrors of the village's past: projects he championed, laws he enacted, subordinates who worked with him, all are regarded negatively because of their association with him. For this reason, his descendants ceased to use his family name, in an attempt to avoid relation to Yagura.

In Other Media

Video Games

Yagura Karatachi is a playable character in the following video games:

Game name
Japanese release
English release
Naruto Mobile
2016
2016
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Blazing
14 July 2016
24 August 2016
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 3
18 April 2013
5 March 2013
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 4
4 February 2016
9 February 2016
Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm Revolution
11 September 2014
16 September 2014
Naruto x Boruto: Ultimate Ninja Storm Connections
16 November 2023
17 November 2023
Naruto: Shinobi Collection
2014
Naruto: Shinobi Collection Shippū Ranbu
27 July 2015
Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Online
14 April 2013
20 July 2016

Trivia

The word "
Yagura
" (
櫓 or 楼
) means "tower", otherwise it can mean "turret". It could also refer to the
tombs
 in the middle ages. The surname "Karatachi" refers to the
trifoliate orange
, also known as the Japanese bitter-orange.

According to the
Boruto
 novel, Yagura's family name was Tachibana (橘), with Karatachi (枸橘) being a name adopted by Kagura.
 He is exclusively referred to as "Yagura Karatachi" in the anime.

In order to prevent the jinchūriki from turning traitor, it is tradition for the host to be selected from the family of the village's own Kage. Due to this, Yagura may have been connected to one of the previous Mizukage.

According to
Kakashi Hiden: Lightning in the Icy Sky
, only families who were annexed into Kirigakure were to partake in the Academy's death match graduation ritual.
 Yagura, having participated in it, indicates the
Karatachi Family
 was conquered by the village.

Quotes

(To
Kisame
) "
I can trust you because of who you are, Kisame. For the sake of our nation and village, you've done our dirty work. And additionally, you've followed through on traitorous assignments. You're well aware this world is full of lies, and deceit.
"

(To
Naruto
) "
Welcome! I thank you on behalf of all of us jinchūriki and tailed beasts! I've wanted to meet you, Naruto Uzumaki!
"

(To Naruto) "
I'm the former Mizukage! And I was really distinguished! I'm an adult too!
"

(To Naruto) "
The Four-Tails was right. You don't listen very well at all.
"

References