The
Yamanaka Clan
 (
山中一族
,
Yamanaka Ichizoku
) is a family of shinobi found in
Konohagakure
. They specialise in mind related techniques, and they own and run a
flower shop
 in the village. They traditionally lead the
Konoha Barrier Team
.

Overview





Yamanaka's flower shop.



The members of this clan specialise in mind-related techniques which makes them experts at intelligence gathering, espionage and interrogation amongst other things. They have also displayed
sensory
 abilities and their techniques include transferring their consciousness, reading minds and communicating telepathically. The flower symbol of this clan is the
bush clover
 which symbolises a "positive love".
 Most members of the Yamanaka clan wear their hair in a long ponytail, which appears to be traditional.

The Yamanaka clan has a
special relationship
 with the
Akimichi
 and
Nara Clan
. For generations, members of these three families have formed an "Ino–Shika–Chō Trio", named after the first part of the names of the members. The Yamanaka members are the "Ino" in the trio. To strengthen the unity between the three clans, a member of the
Sarutobi Clan
 will give them special earrings to present to each generation head when they are promoted to
chūnin
 after which they will swear their oaths. The earrings also symbolise that they are considered adults by their respective clans.

Other Notable Clan Members

In the anime, during the
Fourth Shinobi World War
, two injured Yamanaka clan members were supported by
Hiashi Hyūga
 and an unknown
Hyūga Clan
 member, when they arrived at the battle against the
Ten-Tails
.

Leaders

Inoichi Yamanaka

Trivia

The name "Yamanaka" means "in the middle of the mountain", "in the mountain range".

Lake Yamanaka
 is a Japanese lake that is located at the base of
Mount Fuji
.

"Ino", "Shika" and "Chō" are the names of three cards needed for a highly prized trick of "Inoshikachō" in the
Hanafuda
.

The bush clover in the Yamanaka mon, as shown in the manga when explained, is a
Thunberg's bushclover
, often cultivated for its beautiful purple blossoms that bloom in autumn.

The Yamanaka clan has been renowned since the establishment of Konoha, as
Hashirama Senju
 knew of them and their techniques while he was alive.

References