This article is about Shikamaru's mother. For Yoshino from Find the Four-Leaf Red Clover!, see
Kaede Yoshino
.

Yoshino Nara
 (
奈良ヨシノ
,
Nara Yoshino
) is the wife of the former head of
Konohagakure
's
Nara clan
:
Shikaku
.

Personality

Usually a very strict, and overbearing woman, she can also be very warm and gentle at times. Due to the passive nature of the Nara men, it's not surprising that she and Shikaku got married. He appears to have accepted the fact that she's the dominant of the two of them and avoids doing anything to provoke her.

This has resulted in their son
Shikamaru
 not taking his father seriously — especially on matters involving women and relationships. He views his father as being "whipped", and comments (silently) that his father is afraid of looking his mother in the eyes. Despite this, Shikamaru is just as afraid of provoking her as his father is. Shikamaru refers to her as a "troublesome woman". When he asks his father what he saw in her, he replied that there are times when she is gentle, implying that she's not as tyrannical as her son perceives her to be. Despite this, it's likely that she is partly to blame for Shikamaru's rather cynical view of women and marriage.

Appearance

Yoshino has long, dark brown hair usually kept in a low ponytail with three strands framing her face, fair skin and dark eyes. While at home, she was seen in a pink blouse and dark-coloured skirt along with an apron over it. She also wears a pair of simple hoop earrings. In the anime during Part II, her appearance remains the same.

Abilities

As a
chūnin
-level
kunoichi
, Yoshino is undoubtedly an experienced kunoichi. While her abilities were not expounded on in the manga, in the anime, she is shown very advanced in taijutsu, able to defeat several sumo wrestlers with a combination of hand-to-hand combat and
cookware
, also indicating decent physical strength.

Part I

Sasuke Recovery Mission

Main article:
Sasuke Recovery Mission

She is first seen ordering Shikamaru to hurry and eat his breakfast as his father was beginning a mission that day, and as such there wouldn't be much time for training. She later informed Shikamaru that
two

messengers
 had come to carry him to
Tsunade
 who wanted to speak with him.

Part II

Akatsuki Suppression Mission

Main article:
Akatsuki Suppression Mission

In the anime after
Asuma
's death, Yoshino is briefly seen reminding Shikamaru that dinner would soon be ready.

Past Arc: The Locus of Konoha

Main article:
Past Arc: The Locus of Konoha

In the anime, Yoshino can be briefly seen with her family, as a young Shikamaru asks his father why everyone is afraid of
Naruto
.

Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation

Main article:
Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation

In the anime, with the majority of the shinobi away from the village,
Ebisu
 gathers the women and children of Konoha where he discusses their current situation. When the
Sumo Wrestlers
 attack the village, she, alongside
Mebuki
 and the other mothers drove them off and watched on as
Konohamaru
 defeated them with a
Rasengan
.

In Other Media

Movies

Naruto the Movie: Blood Prison

Main article:
Naruto the Movie: Blood Prison

During Naruto's flashback to the members of the village when he was gathering
natural energy
 to enter
Sage Mode
, Yoshino can been seen alongside her husband, amongst the villagers.

Trivia

Yoshino's name may come from the Yoshino district and town in Nara Prefecture, Japan, as well as the name by which the Kinokawa River is known in Nara.

References