"
You Must Act
" (
お前がやるんだ
,
Omae ga yarunda
,
Viz:
 You'll Need to Do It) is chapter 8 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 manga.

Synopsis

Momoshiki
 finishes changing from absorbing
Kinshiki
 as the others look on. He releases a massive energy that cuts through the
God Tree
. He swiftly punches and kicks
Darui
 into one of the branches of the God Tree. He goes after
Gaara
, who blocks his punch with sand, but Momoshiki's hair goes around it,
binding
 Gaara by his limbs, waist and neck, kneeing him on the back and letting him fall to the ground. He falls near
Chōjūrō
 and
Kurotsuchi
, his fall allowing Momoshiki to kick Chōjūrō from behind. Kurotsuchi tries punching him, but he blocks it, and lands a punch of his own on her chest, causing her to collapse as well.

Naruto
 and
Sasuke
 reach him, while
Boruto
 watches from afar, noticing how he easily took out the
Kage
. Naruto and Sasuke noticed how much he's changed, Naruto calling him a monster, much to Momoshiki's amusement, who considers Naruto one as well. Momoshiki and Naruto exchange blows, Momoshiki managing to kick Naruto away. He flies over to Naruto to land another hit, but Naruto dodges it, and blocks the next one as he enters
Six Paths Sage Mode
, landing his own hits and sending Momoshiki flying. Sasuke lands a hit of his own, sending Momoshiki down to the severed God Tree. Momoshiki creates
wooden dragons
 out of it, some of which Sasuke beheads before being caught by one. The head holding Sasuke is cut by Naruto, having fully manifested
Kurama
. Momoshiki gathers the environment and creates a giant golem around himself to fight him. He manages to grab Kurama by the throat, but Sasuke intervenes, armouring Kurama with
Susanoo
, allowing Naruto to destroy one of the golem's arms. Using Susanoo's sword, they cut the golem down, Momoshiki falling to the ground. Naruto and Sasuke dispel Kurama and Susanoo. Boruto is in awe. Darui asks if it's over, but Naruto denies it. Kurotsuchi suggests they pull off a grand collaborative technique, but Chōjūrō and Gaara point out that would get them back to square one. Naruto notices
Katasuke
 and his camera man in the distance. Against Naruto's warning, Katasuke fires several
ninjutsu
 from his
Kote
, which Momoshiki readily absorbs, reinvigorating him. Momoshiki traps the five Kage and Sasuke with a shadow jutsu from the Nara clan, and further pins Naruto down with
black receivers
. Boruto thinks back to Sasuke telling him that should the worst happen and they can't fight anymore, Boruto has to act. Momoshiki prepares a jutsu against the Kage and Sasuke, and Boruto begins forming his
Rasengan
.

Trivia

The chapter contains several changes compared to the events of
Boruto: Naruto the Movie
:

Momoshiki emitted a shockwave which cut down
his planet's

God Tree
, while in the movie,
Kinshiki
 was responsible for this earlier.

In the movie, the four
Kage
 were just thrown back by Momoshiki's shockwave, but in the chapter, Momoshiki personally fought and defeated each of them.

Naruto activated
Six Paths Sage Mode
 already after he engaged Momoshiki, although in the movie, he entered it beforehand. Similarly, Sasuke didn't take off his cloak, but wore it during the rest of the battle.

In the movie, Sasuke escaped Momoshiki's
Shadow Imitation Technique
 along with Boruto and then prompted him to use
Vanishing Rasengan
. However, in the chapter, both Sasuke and the five Kage were caught, and Sasuke's instruction for Boruto had happened before they departed to the other dimension, which prompts Boruto to act in the present time.