"
You Guys are the Main!!
" (
君らがメインだ!!
,
Kimi-ra ga Mein da!!
,
Viz:
 You Two Are the Main Act!!) is chapter 641 of the original
Naruto
 manga.

Summary

With time running out on them as the
threat
 grew even greater,
Minato
 decides that he would have to teleport away from them with the ominous ball. Before any of them can react, however, a regenerated
Tobirama
 arrives to their aid and grabs the orb,
teleports
 to
Obito
 — whom he had managed to mark during their previous confrontation. As the orb expands some distance away from the shinobi, the real Tobirama arrives noting that it was a
shadow clone
 that was just destroyed. Elsewhere on the battlefield, the
Allied Shinobi Forces
 watch on as the two titans
Madara
 and
Hashirama
 clash, awestruck at the level at which their predecessors fought.
Shikamaru
 uses the opportunity to tell everyone —
via

Ino
 — that they were not to lose focus for a second because no matter how little power they had in comparison, even the smallest opening could be exploited.
 Meanwhile, Obito emerges from the rubble unscathed having used the mysterious substance to protect himself, leading Minato and Tobirama to readjust their strategy. As they do this, however,
Sasuke
 rushes forth despite the Fourth's protests that he would create the opening and uses
Amaterasu
, which Obito deflects. Not one to be outdone,
Naruto
 follows suit, correcting Sasuke and noting that they would be the ones to create the opening for the Second and Fourth to attack. While surprised, Tobirama nonetheless calls Minato to action, and both men mark each other with their respective Flying Thunder God seals intent on using the
Flying Thunder God Mutually Instantaneous Revolving Technique
. With the preparations made, Sasuke and Naruto rush forth with another
Kagutsuchi-infused Rasenshuriken
 while simultaneously, Tobirama appears behind Obito. Preparing to launch their attack, Minato teleports before them and is struck with the technique. Employing their own tactic, Minato and Obito switch places causing Obito to be hit by Naruto and Sasuke's attack. Tobirama  reinforces the fall of Obito while Minato is left with the dark orbs that surrounded Obito before the switch took place. Tobirama urges Minato to finish the attack instead of making up silly names for each jutsu. Some ways away,
Sakura
 sees the black flames and asks
Hinata
 how her team-mates were doing as the latter notes that both young men were smiling.

Trivia

In this chapter, there are a few errors:

Before Minato is hit by Naruto's and Sasuke's combination attack to complete the Space—Time Ninjutsu technique, his right arm is shown to be regenerated in that panel but still missing in subsequent ones. This was corrected in the tankōbon version.

In the last panel, Sakura is mistakenly depicted wearing a
Konohagakure
's
forehead protector
 instead of the Allied Shinobi Forces'. However, this was not corrected in the tankōbon version.