This article is about the chapter. For the volume, see
You Damn Geezer…!!
.

"
You Damn Geezer…!!
" (
クソオヤジ…!!
,
Kuso Oyaji…!!
,
Viz:
 Stupid Old Man!!) is chapter 4 of the
Boruto: Naruto Next Generations
 manga.

Summary

Shikamaru
 comes by
Naruto
's office, informs him that their children passed to the next phase of the Chūnin Exams, and that they're likely to face off against one another in the next phase. Naruto celebrates after Shikamaru leaves. Naruto meets with
Sasuke
, who is waiting on the decryption of
Kaguya
's scroll. When Sasuke turns to leave, Naruto confirms with Sasuke that he is training
Boruto
. Sasuke asks if Boruto told him, but Naruto answers it was
Konohamaru
. Naruto concedes to Sasuke's earlier claim that the essence of a shinobi never changes. At home, Boruto is congratulated for passing to the next phase of the exams by his mother and sister. He thanks them, says not to bother with dinner, and goes to his room.
 Boruto contemplates his
Kote
, when someone knocks on the door. Boruto covers the tool, stressing his earlier words, only to be surprised by Naruto. Naruto congratulates Boruto, mirroring Shikamaru's earlier words that important things should be said in person. Naruto tries fist-bumping Boruto, telling him not to lose to
Shikadai
. Boruto is appreciative of the words, but doesn't return the fist-bump, as not to expose his Kote. Naruto bumps his fist on Boruto's chest instead, and says he'll be watching him. After Naruto leaves, Boruto tries down-playing the event to himself, but smiles and tears up. At his office, Naruto looks at his old outfit.

The day of the third phase,
Lee
 as a proctor explains how the matches will be proceed. Boruto is matched against
Yurui
. The two exchange a few blows, before Yurui begins blowing his explosive bubblegum. When the smoke of the first explosion clears, Yurui has covered the arena with more bubbles. Knowing his father is watching, Boruto almost uses the shurikenjutsu he learned from Sasuke, but opts to use the Kote at the last moment, throwing a special shuriken that makes a very tight turn, causing the bubble Yurui is creating to blow up on his face. In the audience,
Sarada
 and
Mitsuki
 note the tight turn. Sarada, Shikadai, Mitsuki,
Araya
, and
Shinki
 defeat
Tarui
,
Yodo
,
Toroi
,
Inojin
, and
Chōchō
, respectively. Boruto fights Shikadai, who tries to immobilise Boruto's clones. Boruto almost lands a blow, but Shikadai expands his shadow over a wide area at the last moment, catching Boruto and all his clones. Determined not to lose, Boruto manages to release several small scrolls from his Kote, generating many more clones out of Shikadai's reach. Naruto notices the scrolls. Shikadai forfeits, not wanting to bother with countering so many clones. In the audience,
Temari
,
Sakura
, and
Ino
 recall when Shikamaru forfeited his fight against Temari.
Katasuke
 tells his subordinate they'll make their move soon. Naruto stands up, bothered. Sasuke receives the scroll's decrypted contents, and goes to tell Naruto about it immediately, certain the exams will have to be suspended. Naruto jumps down to the arena. Boruto tries fist-bumping him, but Naruto catches his hand, exposing the Kote, and asks Boruto what is going on.
Kinshiki
 and
Momoshiki
 fly towards the arena, Kinshiki sensing a lot of chakra gathering, and Momoshiki seeing Naruto with
Kurama
's chakra with his
Byakugan
.

Trivia

In
Boruto: Naruto the Movie
, before jumping down to the arena, Naruto has
Hinata
 confirm Boruto's possession of the Kote with her Byakugan.