"
You Failed! Kakashi's Final Decision
" (
失格?カカシの結論
,
Shikkaku? Kakashi no Ketsuron
) is episode 5 of the original
Naruto
 anime.

Synopsis

Kakashi
 evades
Sasuke
's attack with the
Body Replacement Technique
. After revealing his position, Sasuke moves out to avoid being found by Kakashi. A worried
Sakura
 runs off to find Sasuke, only to be caught by Kakashi's
genjutsu
 that makes her believe that Sasuke is seriously injured, which causes her to scream and faint. Sasuke confronts Kakashi and forces him to stop reading
Icha Icha
 and use both hands to defend against his
string of taijutsu attacks
. Sasuke then launches a
giant fireball
 at Kakashi, which the
jōnin
 manages to avoid by burrowing underground before
dragging
 Sasuke down, leaving only his head to be seen.

Naruto
 manages to free himself from the tree he was hanging from and spots the food for lunch. Before he can try to snag a bite, Kakashi appears and ties him to a tree post. Elsewhere, Sakura wakes up and goes to look for Sasuke, whom she believes is still injured. She finds him buried from the neck down and comes to the conclusion that he was decapitated, before fainting again. Sasuke manages to free himself and awakens Sakura, who is relieved to see he is unharmed. Despite time running out, Sasuke is still set on getting a
bell
, informing Sakura that he came close to doing so. Knowing that she is not capable of getting a bell and worried that she'll be separated from Sasuke if he does, Sakura tries to convince him to give up and try next year. Sasuke dismisses the idea, explaining that he is an avenger and doesn't need any setbacks. However, just then, the timer for the exercise goes off.

Kakashi meets with the three
genin
 and tells them that he won't be sending them back to the
Academy
. Naruto and Sakura share in the happy news until Kakashi goes on to say that they will be dropped from being a ninja permanently. Naruto is outraged and demands an explanation, and Kakashi explains that they don't think like ninja, thinking more like "little kids". Sasuke then charges at Kakashi, but is easily restrained. Kakashi further explains that teamwork was the key in retrieving a bell, and notes that each of them were so self-entitled throughout the challenge: Naruto recklessly tried to face a foe who clearly outmatched him alone without even a real plan, Sakura focused all her interest on Sasuke while making no effort to help Naruto when she was able to do so, and Sasuke arrogantly believed his teammates were a burden to him and that he would only focus on himself. After showing them
Konoha
's
Memorial Stone
, Kakashi decides to give them another chance. Kakashi tells Sasuke and Sakura to eat lunch and replenish their energy; however, since Naruto broke the rules and tried to eat before the test was complete, he is forced to remain tied to the post and watch. Before he leaves, Kakashi warns them that if they feed Naruto, they will immediately fail.

After Kakashi leaves, Sasuke and Sakura begin eating their food, while Naruto's stomach growls of hunger. Sasuke decides to share his food with Naruto, stating that since they have to retrieve the bells as a team, he needs Naruto to operate at good strength, which Naruto cannot do if he is hungry. Sakura hesitates, but decides to share her food as well, stating that she is on a diet and eats less than Sasuke. As Sasuke resumes eating his food, Sakura is forced to feed Naruto since his arms are tied. Kakashi then suddenly
appears
 and tells them that they will be punished for not breaking his rules. However, Naruto, Sasuke and Sakura band together to state that they are a team, and to their surprise, are rewarded with Kakashi stating they have passed. He explains that those who break the rules are considered scum, but those who abandon their friends are even worse than scum. He notifies the they are the only team he has passed, since they were the only ones to realize that breaking rules to help your friends is necessary whereas his previous students merely followed his orders. Kakashi tells them to go home and that they will have their first mission together; as Kakashi, Sasuke and Sakura leaves, Naruto yells at them to free him from the tree post.

Trivia

When Kakashi uses the Demonic Illusion: Hell Viewing Technique on Sakura to make her see an injured Sasuke, it isn't as heavily graphic as the manga, as he was not missing an arm and his leg was not twisted.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Maile Flanagan
Sasuke Uchiha
Noriaki Sugiyama
杉山 紀彰
Sugiyama Noriaki
Yuri Lowenthal
Sakura Haruno
Chie Nakamura
中村 千絵
Nakamura Chie
Kate Higgins
Kakashi Hatake
Kazuhiko Inoue
井上 和彦
Inoue Kazuhiko
Dave Wittenberg
Iruka
Toshihiko Seki
関 俊彦
Seki Toshihiko
Quinton Flynn
Third Hokage: Sarutobi
Hidekatsu Shibata
柴田 秀勝
Shibata Hidekatsu
Steve Kramer