This article is about the episode Zabuza's Blade. For the blade itself, see
Kubikiribōchō
.

"
Zabuza's Blade
" (
再不斬の大刀
,
Zabuza no Daitō
) is episode 115 of the
Naruto: Shippūden
 anime.

Synopsis

Sometime in the past,
Sasuke
 had told
Suigetsu Hōzuki
, a prisoner of
Orochimaru
's, that he would free him one day. After having killed Orochimaru, Sasuke makes good on his promise and frees Suigetsu from his water tank. After being freed, Sasuke tells Suigetsu that he is the first member to be added to a
team
 he is forming, along with
Karin
 of the Southern Hideout and
Jūgo
 of the Northern Hideout. Suigetsu shows no desire to join Sasuke's team at first, but decides to join under the condition that Sasuke help him find
Kubikiribōchō
, the sword of
Zabuza Momochi
, who was one of the
Seven Ninja Swordsmen of the Mist
, since it was
Sasuke's squad
 that defeated Zabuza.

Sasuke and Suigetsu head to the
Land of Waves
, where Sasuke notices that the name of the bridge is called the
Great Naruto Bridge
. Suigetsu asks whether Zabuza was tough, and Sasuke
recalls his first encounter
 with Zabuza, as well as
when Zabuza trapped

Kakashi
 inside of his
Water Prison Technique
. Sasuke is snapped out of his reverie by Suigetsu and merely crosses the bridge and enters the village, where they nearly get into a fight
with a rude villager
. After heading to
Zabuza and Haku's Grave
, they discover that Kubikiribōchō, which Kakashi had buried there along with Zabuza, is missing. After heading to a village restaurant, Suigetsu notices all the girls there fawning over Sasuke and tells them that Sasuke is looking for the blade, prompting them all to tell him that
Tazuna
 knows its location. Sasuke
remembers meeting him
 and tells Suigetsu that Tazuna was the bridge builder who built the Great Naruto Bridge. However, when they get to Tazuna's house, they discover that both he and his grandson
Inari
 left for the
Land of Lightning
 and would not return for a year; however, a worker there does tell them that he knows the whereabouts of Kubikiribōchō, and that it is in the possession of a corrupt boss named
Tenzen Daikoku
.

In the village, Suigetsu and Sasuke come across the rude villager once more and Suigetsu threatens him to give up Tenzen's location. That night, Sasuke infiltrates the castle and points his
sword
 at Tenzen, telling him that his name is Suigetsu and that he would attack tomorrow with an army, and to have tens of thousands of men ready. As Tenzen rallies his troops, Sasuke merely tells Suigetsu that there is a rival group clashing against Tenzen and that he should use the opportunity to seize Kubikiribōchō. Sasuke makes a wager with Suigetsu in which they deal with Tenzen's men without killing any of them and enters into the fray, defeating one half with ease. As the other half approaches, Sasuke disappears, leaving Suigetsu to deal with them. Suigetsu is able to easily defeat them and heads inside the mansion, only to be bisected by
Tenzen's Bodyguard
, who wields the Kubikiribōchō.

Utilising his
Hydrification Technique
 to liquefy and rejoin his bottom half, Suigetsu tells them that he cannot be harmed by blades. He then uses his
Water Release: Great Water Arm Technique
 to pry Zabuza's blade out of the bodyguard's arms, sending the bodyguard flying. Suigetsu wishes to kill Tenzen as Tenzen has been spreading rumours that he was the one who killed Zabuza, only to be interrupted by Sasuke, who convinces Suigetsu not to kill him. As Suigetsu destroys the pillars around the house to give Tenzen a chance to live, Tenzen demands to know whether this Sasuke is the very one who killed Orochimaru, surprising Suigetsu that the word has already spread. As the duo leave the Land of Waves, Suigetsu realises that Sasuke knew the blade had been taken and had set up the whole thing with Tenzen's army in order for Sasuke to test his strength. They then head to the Southern Hideout, where Karin is located, who manages to knock a man out after stating that Orochimaru's death does not grant him the right to do whatever he pleases. However, she quickly senses a powerful and frightening
chakra
 nearby.

Credits

Role
Seiyū
English Voice Actor
English
Japanese
Rōmaji
Sasuke Uchiha
Noriaki Sugiyama
杉山 紀彰
Sugiyama Noriaki
Yuri Lowenthal
Suigetsu
Takashi Kondo
近藤 隆
Kondō Takashi
Grant George
Karin
Kanako Tojo
東條 加那子
Tōjō Kanako
Ali Hillis
Naruto Uzumaki
Junko Takeuchi
竹内 順子
Takeuchi Junko
Maile Flanagan
Sakura Haruno
Chie Nakamura
中村 千絵
Nakamura Chie
Kate Higgins
Kakashi Hatake
Kazuhiko Inoue
井上 和彦
Inoue Kazuhiko
Dave Wittenberg
Zabuza Momochi
Unsho Ishizuka
石塚 運昇
Ishizuka Unshō
Steve Blum
Tenzen Daikoku
Masafumi Kimura
木村 雅史
Kimura Masafumi
Patrick Seitz
Tenzen's bodyguard
Kenichiro Matsuda
松田 健一郎
Matsuda Ken'ichirō
Kyle Hebert
Zōri
Keijin Okuda
奥田 啓人
Okuda Keijin
Rick Zieff
Tea shop waitress
Ayano Ishikawa
石川 綾乃
Ishikawa Ayano
Danielle Judovits
Young carpenter
Takafumi Kawakami
川上 貴史
Kawakami Takafumi
Derek Stephen Prince