The greatest Alchemist of the Monster Race a peerless genius that only appears once every tens of thousands of years and probably the strongest Alchemist in the Heavenly Martial Realm.

History

He challenged the human race to Alchemy competitions and made them suffer a crushing defeat until Gu Feiyang showed up and managed to beat him using tricks.

He first appeared in the Western Region's Ancient Land in the battle at Five Cloud Mountain, where he supported the Monster Race in opening the seal of Five Cloud Mountain to free their sealed Clansmen. In the battle, he fought on par with the
Holy Region's
 High Elder
Tian Zhao Zi
, a human race Peak 9th Tier Alchemist. Ultimately winning due to his younger age, which resulted in him having more stamina in a battle of souls.

Plot

Five Cloud Mountains

During his journey to the Five Cloud Mountains with Huang, the current Monster Emperor, Ai tries several times to undo the seal of the Five Cloud Mountains under
Huang
 orders, which becomes possible with a formula passed down by the Master of the Fuyao Sacred Sect. She remains neutral, trying to appease the hostility between
Huang
,
Mo
 and
Shang
 Faction throughout the war, and engages in a fight with Tian Zhao Zi, leaving him alive out of respect for the senior of the Dao of Alchemy, and becoming desperate after the death and destruction of so many Monsters during the battle.

Martial Flame City

After the battle against Supreme Gui Xu in the Monster territory (Illusory Realm of Stars and Moon), the entire territory is destroyed and the surviving Monsters take refuge in
Yanwu City
. Concerned about the possibility of Mo becoming the Monster Emperor after Huang death and Shang disappearance, in addition to the current state of the Monster Race, Ai proposes an Alchemy match with
Li Yunxiao
 in exchange for some terms that benefit whichever side wins. With this, Ai demonstrates his Supreme perfection in Alchemy by creating a non-Maha Character that condenses the Laws of the World after understanding and consolidating the structure of all things, equal to creation from Noah Ark, but in order to create a Character that contains the Laws of the World that is not an Ancient Maha Character, obviously, this Character was not on the same level as the Ancient Maha Character, but it was similar. After the fight she assumes defeat, as Li Yunxiao not only saved her creation after creating a
Heavenly Supreme Artifact
 (Sword that Will Rise and Fall), focusing the forces of the World on destroying the Sword, as he also broke the Chains of Law, something that simply shocked the minds of everyone present, with this he grants his creation to Li Yunxiao for the purpose of establishing a good relationship.

References