SPOILER ALERT!

He is the Sect Master of the
Star Mansion Sect
 from the
Eastern Region
. As a Nine Heavens Martial Sovereign and a 500 years old cultivator, he is considered a well known existence in the Eastern Region and the entire
Tianwu Continent
.

Background

He has a peculiar fondness for girls around the age of
thirteen
 or
fourteen
. The Star Constellation Sect even specially built a palace to raise these girls for that old eccentric's "enjoyment."

The girls who are liked by him are kept as servants after deflowering them, while those that are not, are personally killed by him.

During the major power chart ranking, the old monster refused to participate because of the lacking of his skills.

Plot

Martial Flame City Crisis

After the fall of the Mount Meru, rummors accusing
Li Yunxiao
 as the culprit behind the destruction of Star Constellation Sect's Heavenscent Empire branch began to appear across the continent.

Taking advantage of such rummors, the Old Monster denounced that Li Yunxiao was the culprit behind the destruction of the sect’s branch and had even stolen the Star Mansion battleship. Personally travelled to Yanwu City to seek revenge.

Everything as a ruse to get control over the newly enriched land of the city.

He demanded that Li Yunxiao revealed himself. But nobody showed in front of him. Because of it, the Old Monster threatened to kill everyone in the city.

Li Yunxiao responded arrogantly from the City Lord's Mansion, insulting and challenging the Old Monster.

Infuriated, the Old Monster unleashed a powerful attack, which Li Yunxiao valiantly attempted to defend against using a series of powerful defensive arrays, Xuan artifacts and techniques.

Despite Li Yunxiao's efforts, the attacks's overwhelming power proved too much for him, and he was ultimately knocked into the ground, leaving the city in awe of the Old Monster's might. However, Li Yunxiao's resilience proved to be greater than the old monsters attack and resisted it.

After being shocked by Li Yunxiao's survival and his display of techniques to withstand the Martial Sovereign's punch, Constellation Old Monster, enraged by the mockery of Yunxiao, was about to strike again when
Li Huachi
, also known as Heavenly Zither Martial Sovereign, appeared on the scene.

Constellation Old Monster was taken aback and retreated in fear. Li Huachi instilled a sense of protection over Yanwu City, surprising everyone who thought he had come to seize the city.

Li Huachi explained that he owed someone a favor and had come to repay it by protecting Yanwu City. This revelation left everyone shocked, wondering about the significance of Yanwu City that could invite a Titled Martial Sovereign's protection.

Constellation Old Monster found himself in a difficult situation with the presence of Li Huachi, but also felt embarrassed and tried to save face by boasting about his improved Stormy Waves Technique. However, his arrogance only led to Li Yunxiao to mock him again, causing Old Monster to become further enraged.

With indifference for his attitude, Li Huachi promised the old monster that if he could resist a single attack from him, he would no longer  meddle in his affairs. The old monster, convinced in the ease of the task, accepted.

He unleashed his Raging Waves Technique to attack Li Huachi. In response, Li Huachi used his zither to play the Divine Charm, a segment of an ancient divine music, and created a sound wave that effortlessly neutralized the attack and took the old monster's life.