General Information

The Demon Realm is adjacent to the
Heavenly Martial Realm
. On several places those two Realms are colliding and slowly merging, which are: Tiandang Mountains (where Gu Feiyang died), at the border of the Sea of Soul Formation.

One of the native objects to the Demon Realm are the
Neon Rainbow Stones
, untainted and unrefined they are called Origin Stones.

The inhabitants of the Demon Realm are called Demons or Devils. When those Demon creatures get injured they decompose into lower level demon creatures, until they turn into demon qi at one point. Which is also the reason why it's so difficult to kill them.

For example a Demon Lord turns into a Ten Direction Evil Spirit, when killed. If further cut down it turns into an Evil Spirt, which after getting cut down again finally turns into pure Demon Qi.

Demons

Demons
 are formed either by yin-yang intertwining or when pure Demon Qi concentrated in a place.  At the start, there are a total of 8
Demon Sovereigns
 discovered in the current Demon Realm all located in the
Central Continent
 Followed by 2
nd
 Tier Demon Lord, 1
st
 Tier Demon Lord, Half-Step Demon Lord, Ten Direction Evil Spirit, Evil Spirit along with many different Demon monsters.

Demon Supremes

Man

Yan

Gong

Yuan

Lan

Hou

Ji

Zheng

Demon Lords

Xing
 (2nd Tier Demon Lord)

Yue
 (2nd Tier Demon Lord & Tier 9 Alchemist)

Mi (2nd Tier Demon Lord)

Yi (2nd Tier Demon Lord)

Shi (2nd Tier Demon Lord)

Dan (2nd Tier Demon Lord)

Cong (2nd Tier Demon Lord)

Zai (1st Tier Demon Lord)

Zhu (Holy Demon Envoy)

Domain

There are 3 domains/Regions in the demon realm.

Central Continent

Mostly divided into 8 territories each are ruled and controlled by 8 Demon Sovereigns. There are many unexplored regions, Although they exist more, they are not located in this Central Continent, either they are not known or they are hidden. Among the 3 domains Central Continent is consider safest and most well-regulated land.

The Central Continent is multiple times larger than the Tianwu Continent(For example In order to participate in the Material Exchange of the Zheng tribe the seven demon lords from the Northwest tribe had to travel for almost 2 years).

But because of the lack of alchemist only the main cities of each territories have Super scale Teleportation Formation. Other Large Cities only have Medium size Teleportation Formation.

Ancient Desolate Vicious Domain

The vast space outside of the Central Continent, Because there is no rules to speak of in this region. It was a land where the strong devours the weak. However there are 17 or more powerful aristocratic families or hidden families that dominates the region. The strongest among the Demon Commanders of the Sacred Families are the Eight Ancestors, all of them possess the strength of a Peak Demon Commander, the strongest among them are Bai Shu and He, who have shown signs of ascending to the Holy Demon Realm.

Yuan County

Yuan County is a territory inferior to the Eight Central Regions, they have three major factions under their command, three families led by Peak Second Grade Demon Lords. Famous for its Transforming Qilin Demon Bones, the Buddha Corridor is a mysterious place that emerged countless years ago, he is the source of the Transforming Qilin Demon Bones, a place filled with dangers, It is said that the chance of death when entering the central location of the Buddha Corridor is extremely high even for experts, but by purchasing a Buddha Map, one can Yuan County is located in the Ice Region, which has two Demon Commanders ruling over it. safely enter the central location. Yuan County is located between the Eight Central Regions and the Archaeus Region.

Archaeus Region

The source of the attacks on the Heavenly Martial Realm is a mysterious force that has appeared out of nowhere in the Demon Realm. Even many Demon Commanders only vaguely knew this place, Only the 8 demon Sovereigns visited the Archaeus Region. Any demon lord that came from Archaeus Region are called Holy Envoy, with Holy Demons at its command, they have control over all Eight Regions.

Environment and Inhabitants

Just like the Heavenly Martial Realm, the Demon Realm has many different inhabitants and special environments.

Yin-Yang Intertwining

Yin and Yang are present in all things and beings in the Universe, therefore, Demons are no exception and have genders, Woman and Man. After a Man and a Woman with Demonic Qi present in their body copulate, the Yin and Yang will intertwine and evolve, potentially forming a life form like a child.
These Demons that arise through sex are normally weaker than common Demons, but they have common intelligence and do not need to consume other Demons to evolve their intellect. They are very common among all Tribes.

Demonic Fog Light

Appears in many places in the Demon Realm. Suppresses the six senses, can be broken with the power of the five elements.

Mammoth Wizdom Lizard

A monster from the Demon Realm. It's strength is equal to a 2nd Tier Demon Lord.

Head Abalone

A flying monster.

Nether Nine Abalone

It has weak attack, high defense and flying speed. Usually used by demons as an aircraft. It's a Minor Demon.
Minor Demons are a special life form, which are produced after the demon qi of a deceased demon attaches itself to a physical body. Most of them don't have intelligence except a few cases.

World Devouring Demon

An incredibly rare creature in the Demon Realm, it has six degrees of evolution, equivalent to the Realms of the Demon Realm. World-Devouring Demons are considerably superior to Demons in power, for example, if a Demon who has just reached the Demon Commander state has the strength of an expert in the Middle Stage Good Fortune Realm, then a World Devouring Demon who has just reached the Fifth Grade will have the strength of a Peak Stage Good Fortune expert.
These Demons were named this way because they have the incomprehensible ability to devour World Power, are incredibly great tonics for Demonic Cultivators, and can strengthen the bond of any individual who absorbs them with the Heavenly Dao and the Heaven and Earth elements of the Demon Realm, lessening the suppression of the Realm's Power in outside beings, and bringing their existences closer to the superior quality of demonic beings.

Holy Magic Stone

Also called “Boundary Crystal”. It's equivalent to the Heavenly Martial Realms Dragon Crystal. After a Holy Demon dies, its body slowly crystallizes over billions of years which turns into the Holy Individuals of the Heavenly Martial Realm who are infected by Demonic Qi and suffer Qi Deviation adapt a more aggressive consciousness, This can happen either through Demonic Qi or through the assimilation of Neon Stones. An individual's Cultivation tends to increase after demonization due to the superior nature of Demonic Qi.

Jade Demon Pearl

This priceless Pearl  is born after the death of a Holy Demon by the effects of the Five Decrepit Phenomena, that is, it requires the Holy Demon to survive for at least tens or hundreds of thousands of years. A Sovereign Demon's Body is formed by the Rainbow Stone, so is a Holy Demon, but the Demon Jade Pearl is like a Mutant Rainbow Stone.
This object is similar to the Outerworld Dark Stone, but has a different hue.

Sacred Ice Jade

The Yuan County Region has an unknown material that has spread throughout the elements of Buddha Corridor, called Sacred Ice Jade, an individual who has absorbed traces of Demonic Qi in Buddha Corridor, absorbs this Yin Qi and after dying, will develop a Transforming Qilin Demon Bone, a Bone that contains remnants of the deceased individual Understanding of the Rules and Demonic Qi.

Demonization

Individuals infected by Demonic Qi or Neon Stones who have suffered Qi deviations are demonized, adopting a more aggressive consciousness. Cultivation tends to increase due to Demonic Qi infection, as the nature of the Demonic Realm is superior to the Heavenly Martial Realm. Individuals who can find a correct and suitable path for their minds can escape the erosion of thoughts by Demonic Qi, even if only partially, and manage to remain with their mindsets.

Primordial Era

Ancient times where varied and possibly physical species inhabited the Demon Realm. Demonic Apes are an extinct species that dominated the Demon Realm for millions of years, It is said that when they reach adulthood they can enter the Demon Sovereign Realm without interruption, therefore, they ran wild as the rulers of the World.

Ancient Demon Realm

After a World collapses, a World Emblem is formed, it can be used to condense the space of a Saint Artifact into a true World under the control of the creator, This occurred millions or billions of years ago in the Demon Realm, resulting in the formation of one of the Six Paths Demon Artifacts, the Avici Scroll. The Book contains numerous lost techniques from the Ancient World, as well as extinct creatures, as the Chaos Fire Demon Dragon, a creature formed by the Power of the Realm and which holds a strength greater than a Holy Demon, similar to the True Spirits or True Dragon of the Heavenly Martial Realm, he was one of the first or the first creature of the Demonic Realm.

Gallery















Devil Qi

Devil Qi

Devil Qi of Di Jia







References