SPOILER ALERT!

The ultimate cultivator and ruler of the
Demon Realm
. In ancient times, he launched a full offensive against the whole
Heavenly Martial Realm
 while leading his armies. After passing  a long period of time within the Martial Realm, the Demon Emperor got influenced by the energies of the Realm, forcing his body and personality to split, giving birth to
Lord Pu
. Later on the emperor was defeated and split into
several parts
 by
Ancient Almighty Experts
, which were sealed in various places on the Heavenly Martial Continent and other secret locations.

Those parts can be divided into
5
 portions of
Devil Essence
,
5
 pieces
Neon Rainbow Stone
. The stones split into Yin and Yang parts, which resulted in
5 Neon Stones
 (Yin Parts) and
5 Rainbow Stones
 (Yang Part).
Lord Pu
 was not split up, but completely sealed in the Southern Region, depleting its spiritual energy in the process and taking the 10th rank rules of the entire Heavenly Martial Realm away.

Background

A
Demon Emperor
 is a supreme existence in the
Devil World
, far above ordinary
Devil Lords
. The title is not merely a rank but a recognition of absolute authority and power. To become a
one
, one must not only reach the
World King Realm
 but also refine a
Six Paths Devil Weapon. 100.000 thousand years ago even with four world Kings,  if the Demon Emperor hadn't suddenly split into two, the outcome of the battle would still be unknown.

Devil Essence fragments

The five fragments turned into five individuals with their own personalities:

Di Jia
 - Sealed in
Mount Meru

Di Jun
 - Sealed in
Outer Space

Di Ye
 - Sealed in
Burial Grounds

Unnamed East Sea
 - Sealed in the
East Sea Palace

Di Ga
 - Sealed within a secret realm of the
Holy Land

Demon Emperors Body

Dual Polarity Divine Body/ Divine Body of Two Extremes (supreme physique). Complete body was able to produce the Ice Fiend Heart Flame (also known as Void flame, heart demon flame, sighing flame) which is a divine flame that can burn all things. The 5 original pieces of his body split into extreme yin (aegirine) and extreme yang (rainbow stone) respectively.

Extreme Yang Divine Body

Special natural body constitution of pure Yang energy. A person is capable of artificially getting this body constitution by successfully refining a
Rainbow stone
.

Gu Qingqing
 from
Heavenly Night Palace
, who possessed the
Nine Yang Divine Body,
 was the first person capable of successfully refining a rainbow stone and gain the Extreme Yang Divine Body.

Extreme Yin Divine Body

Special natural body constitution of pure Yin energy. A person is capable of artificially getting this body constitution by successfully refining an
Neon Stone
.

Yu Yixian
 was the first person capable of successfully refining a Neon Stone and gain the Extreme Yin Divine Body at the expense of his life.
Later it's revealed that he only partially refined it, leaving behind his soul in the stone to wait for a sacrifice to complete the refinement.
Yu Shengfeng
, his successor, possessed Yu Yixian's body with the intention of getting an Exreme Yin Divine Body.

Conscious Body

After exposing a Rainbow Stone to massive amounts of Yin Energy, combined with its natural properties of Yang Energy, the stone gained its own conscience, giving birth to:
Xiao Hong

Trivia

the Demon Lord, only one can be born in a world. Because that is the choice of the six demon soldiers, just like the choice of the master of the world monument, there can only be one master.
References