General Information

The Devouring Soul Clan was an extremely unique existence among the
Seven Major Forces
, and also the most mysterious. They had very limited interactions with the outside world, giving off a somewhat reclusive feeling. However, they held great power and ruled over the Western Region alongside the
Myriad Stars Valley
.

Within the breadth of influence and the number of experts, perhaps the Myriad Stars Valley had the upper hand. But when it came to sheer terror, the martial practitioners of the Heavenly Martial Realm would rather face ten experts from the Myriad Stars Valley than a single member of the Devouring Soul Clan. Because this bizarre race practiced a secret technique that involved extracting souls.

Originally, such a malicious and evil sect should have aroused public outrage and been eradicated long ago. A Holy Land had indeed launched numerous attacks against the Devouring Soul Clan over tens of thousands of years, especially a large-scale campaign several thousand years ago that nearly wiped out the entire Devouring Soul Clan. However, a powerful member of the Devouring Soul Clan emerged later, leading the remnants to counterattack and plunging the entire continent into chaos and bloodshed.

Particularly at that time, the leader of the Holy Land and his sect were completely wiped out, disappearing from the continent. The place where the Devouring Soul Clan now resided was the spiritual mountain and river of that sect from back then. It was after that incident that the Devouring Soul Clan began to moderate their behavior, even in their soul extraction practices, so as not to provoke excessive anger on the continent. They also became more discreet in their actions and had very limited contact with external sects.

Structure

Sect Master

Huangfu Bi

Vice-Sect Masters

Xi Yulun

You Mi

Nine Elders

Chu Lang

High-Ranking Members

Zhang Shaotian

(Nine-Star Martial Supreme)

Disciples

Lu Feng

Important Information

In the Soul Devouring Sect, there were only three kinds of people who could be promoted to the position of an elder and enjoy all kinds of worship:

The first was that their cultivation had advanced to the level of Martial Sovereign.

The second was that their Soul Devouring Gonfalon had advanced to the Ninth-Grade.

The third was that they had completely refined a Ninth-Grade Profound Artifact.

Two Great Fighting Techniques

The members of the Soul Devouring Sect usually cultivate one of the two techniques.

Soul Devouring Banner

Used by most people of the Sect. It's a Xuan Artifact used to imprison the souls of humans, monsters, and other living beings. The main soul of the Banner, the Soul Slave, is divided into different grades from weak to strong: Yellow, Black, Earth, Heaven. The more souls and soul power the soul slave is fed, the higher its rank becomes. Sect Elders typically have an earth or heaven rank Soul Slave.

The Sect Master's Soul Banner and Soul Slave is different from the rest, it transcended the Heaven grade and is passed down from one generation of Sect Masters to the next. It's called "
Golden Speaker
", resides in the "
Pangu Banner
" and can either fight alongside the Sect Master or fuse with him and greatly enhance his offensive and defensive capabilities.

Soul Battle Technique

The minority of Sect Members use Soul Battle Techniques because of the higher difficulty. In the early stage, a beast's soul is fused with the host and grows together with them. In battles, they temporarily fuse with the host and greatly enhance his Soul Power. They live in a symbiotic relationship, with the host profiting from each other's soul power to grow stronger. Once fused with a soul, it's said to be incredibly difficult to separate them again.

Huangfu Bi
, the Sect Master, uses the "
Great Soul Derivation Technique
". It's a Soul Technique derived after his ancestors partially comprehended the
Great Expansion Divine Technique
.

Trivia

Back then, the first masterThe Golden speaker's was fortunate enough to witness the great expansion divine technique once. However, he was unable to fully master it. He could only rely on his own talent to forcefully memorize the divine technique. After that, he modified it through various techniques and created the great expansion soul refining technique of the soul Devourer sect.