This page is a
Stub
.
The page desperately needs your informations about
Di Jun
.
Please help by
contributing
 your
informations
 and
knowledge
 about
The Ultimate of All Ages/The Eternal Supreme
 to help us
improve
 the
Eternal Supreme Wiki
.

History

After the
Demon Emperor
 got split into five portions of devil essence, each portion became an individual being. Di Jun was originally sealed in the outer space in the Ancient Pagoda and an array of seven chunks of northern heaven cold star iron. An artificial true spirit, the "
crocodile
" (which is created by the immemorial astral wind, an element close the the origin of the wind element), served as the guardian of that formation.

Yunxiao travelled to the outer space, with the intention of obtaining the immemorial astral wind to open the wind territory in his divine realm tablet. Upon collecting it he gets sucked into the dimension where the sealing formation is located. He and the Starlight Soul body of Yuan Gaohan, a 9th tier alchemist, destroy the formation to obtain the northern heaven cold star iron, which leads to the release of Di Jun.

While Yunxiao and Yuang Gaohan flee from Di Jun, the latter fights with the guardian of the formation the crocodile. With the help of the Ancient Pagoda, called the Ancient Gods Battlefield by Di Jun, which is actually a part of a destroyed supreme grade weapon, he manages to subdue the crocodile.

Later Di Jun travels to the Heavenly Martial Continent in the Northern Region to Songyue Yan City where the competition of the Merchant Union takes place. At that time the entire city and most inhabitants have already been annihilated by the Demon Shang and his followers. What remains are only a few high ranking members of the Merchant Union. After fighting with Ding Shan the crocodile gets split in two parts. Di Jun flees after that.

At the boneyard near Blood God Palace, where another piece of the Demon Emperor is sealed Di Jun appears again and fights Di Jia who is also after the piece "
Di Ye
" which is sealed there.