General Information

The leader of Tianyuan Merchant Guild. It seems that he has withdrawn from worldly affairs and handed over the business to his daughter Ding Ling'er.

Appearance

Ding Shan was dressed in silk clothes, with two small white whiskers on his upper lip. He always had a smile on his face. he did have the demeanor of a King.

Personality

Ding Shan is a cunning and ambitious leader, serving as the president of the
Tianyuan Chamber of Commerce
. He is a master manipulator, willing to go to extreme lengths to achieve his goals, even if it means betraying those closest to him. His intelligence and long-term planning skills make him a formidable figure in both the martial world and the political landscape.

History & Plot

He first appears as an elder of
Ten Thousand Treasures Store
 called Xuan Yutang. During the Merchant Competition in Songyue Yan City he kills Gu Feiyang's friend
Yuwen Bo
 (Ch. 648). Yunxiao doesn't know that Ding Shan is the killer. During the whole competition Xuan Yutang seems to be sure that Yunxiao wins, greatly confusing the other Sects Elders.

Later when Songyue Yan City is completely destroyed by the demons Shang and his followers, Xuan Yutang is one of the few remaining survivors. He captures the remaining high ranking merchants and takes them away. Shortly after he has a fight with
Di Jun
 who also appears in the destroyed Songyue Yan City, but can't defeat him and retreats.

After the incident of Songyue Yan City the elder "Xuan Yutang" of Ten Thousand Treasures Store disappears from the world.

It turns out that Ding Shang never handed of over Tianyuan Trading Company to his daughter, but has always been the one in control of everything. Especially the main forces "Golden Edge and Silver Radiance" have always been in his control.

In New Yan City he invites 18 nine-Star Martial Sovereigns to refine a so-called 9-Yin 9-Yang Pill to help him breakthrough to
Divine Transcendence
. Due to Ding Ling'ers pleading he allows Yunxiao to participate in the refinement.

In the end it's revealed that Ding Shang manipulated the array and the refinement is just a disguise to directly extract the 18 nine-Star Martial Sovereigns Qi, allowing him to transcend the 9 Star Martial Sovereign and reaching the
Divine Transcendence Realm
. Yunxiao manages to take advantage of the manipulated array and absorbs, alongside Ding Shang, the Qi of those Cultivators.
Ding Peng
 used as part of the array, because his body possesses a special Yin-Yang constitution, suffers greatly during the process.

It's revealed that Ding Peng and Ding Ling'er are only Ding Shan's adopted children, also proven by Ding Peng through a birthmark on his waist. Ding Shang killed their biological parents and adopted them when they were little kids. Ding Peng was raised only to be used for the Yin Yang Array. Ding Shang kills Ding Peng, who revealed to Yunxiao that Ding Ling'er is his biological sister and is not related to Ding Shang.

Later during the
Ten Thousand Treasure House
's attempted assassination of
Ling Baiyi
, Ding Shang takes over
Mando Chamber of Commerce
 as well as
Thunderwind Commerce Guild
 and absorbs the remnants of
Empyrean One Pavillion
, which took shelter in Yunxiao's World God Monument, making
Tianyuan Trading Company
 the number one Chamber of Commerce on the
Tianwu Continent
.

Yunxiao encounters Ding Shan again in the North Regions Mystic Realm
Langya Heaven
, there they enter the
eternal worlds

emperor pill pavillion
. Out of greed for Ding Shan's lvl 10 Pill he agrees to let him go, only to get tricked by him. Leaving him behind with a lvl 7 Pill and Ding Shan managed to escape unscathed.

Ding Shan agrees to join Li Yi's
Grand Hegemony Alliance
. Unfortunately immediately after the Devils from the Demon World started to invade. Ding Shan got his soul searched and then his body smashed to pieces, which results in his death.

Later it's revealed that he fused with the Immemorial Astral Wind Spirit (one half of the Crocodile), which gave him a Wind Spirit Body, so he survived. To let his son escape from the Devil Lan he tied him down and got killed again.

Power

He is a great alchemist. After several years of dedicated research, his own achievements in the art have already reached the ninth level, which is enough to preside over the alchemy.

Ding Shan, having obtained half of the
Crocodile
, cultivated a secret technique to merge with it and refine the Body of Astral Wind.

References