This page is a
Stub
.
The page desperately needs your informations about
Duan Yue
.
Please help by
contributing
 your
informations
 and
knowledge
 about
The Ultimate of All Ages/The Eternal Supreme
 to help us
improve
 the
Eternal Supreme Wiki
.

Duan Yue

Chronology

Cultivation

Techniques

Relationships

Appearance

Personality

Duan Yue appears to be convinced of his power, but expresses extreme difficulty in understanding
Li Yunxiao
 actions, seeing the young man's talent. He shows extreme sadness over having his Cultivation sealed and is depressed over not being able to keep up with Yunxiao's progress in her adventures.

He regards
Dark Thunder
 as a great companion and communicates with Yunxiao as a beautiful friend.

Background

Duan Yue was a mercenary Martial Emperor who lived in the
Light Song Forest
, until at one point he had a conflict with
Haolian Shaohuang
, subdued him and implanted the Triple Ghost Eyes Seal, which sealed his Cultivation and reduced him to a Seven-Star Martial Grandmaster.

Trivia

Duan Yue meets Li Yunxiao during an Alchemy exhibition by a new appointed Third-Grade Alchemist at the
Duskflame Empire
 Alchemist Association building. He goes with Li Yunxiao to Qinghai Port after discussing some interests, and is called by some Martial Grandmasters to hunt a Nine-Striped Violet Lizard.

Duan Yue and Li Yunxiao are used during the clash and will turn the tide, forcing the Martial Grandmasters to fight head to head with the Martial Emperor-level beast without them. In a moment of frantic struggle,
Heng Yuan
, a Half-step Martial Emperor who commanded part of the Qinghai Star Constellation Sect branch, appears with his subordinates and surrounds everyone.

Heng Yuan personally pursues them and is seriously injured while Duan Yue and Li Yunxiao escape, encountering a mist of rainbow dust that sends them into the territory of the Blaze Fish Tribe who capture them, and after some discussions and an Alchemy competition between Li Yunxiao and the Clan princess,
Tie Ling
, they become allies of the Sea Tribe.

Going to the
Kunwu Divine Tree
, Duan Yue and the others sweep away all the
Yicheng Tribe
 members. After arriving at a place rich in the Kunwu Divine Tree's Vital Energy, Li Yunxiao sets up a Natural Qi absorption array, and with a peek Li Yunxiao notices that Duan Yue is unable to make improvements even after absorbing large amounts of Natural Qi.

After noticing the Triple Ghost Eyes Seal on Duan Yue body, he imparted a technique that could help him undo the seal and return to his peak for an hour a day. Some time later, Li Yunxiao places Haolian Shaohuang on the
Divine Realm Tablet
 and directs him to undo Duan Yue's seal, just before, Duan Yue almost reaches the peak of the Martial Emperor Realm due to his resilient cultivation in the Divine Realm Tablet, and many events later it is shown that he has reached the peak of the Martial Supreme Realm.