General Information

Due to the immense size of the
Sea Clan
, even the King of the Four Seas finds it difficult to count the exact number. Therefore, based on the strength of each clan, the Sea Clan is divided into ten levels for easier management.

At the pinnacle stands the powerful
Bo Family
, the Co-Lords of the Four Seas, revered as godlike beings and not included in the levels.

Below the Sea Emperor Bo Family, the First-Rate is occupied by the Royal Families of the Four Seas, managed by the four major sea clans. They are the
Guang
,
Qin
,
Shun
, and
Run
 clans, representing superpowers.

In the Second-Rate of the Sea Clan, there must be ten
Martial Sovereign
-level powerhouses or more presiding over it. They are like dominant rulers in their respective regions.

For the Third-Rate of the Sea Clan, a
Martial Sovereign
 powerhouse is required.

The Fourth-Rate of the Sea Clan needs a
Martial Supreme
 powerhouse to govern it.

The Fifth-Rate of the Sea Clan requires the presence of a
Martial Emperor
 powerhouse within the clan.

For the Sixth-Rate of the Sea Clan, having a
Martial Grandmaster
 powerhouse is sufficient, similar to the status of a subordinate nation/kingdom within the
Duskflame Empire
.

As for the Seventh-Rate of the Sea Clan, represented the last-ranked, only a
Martial King
 powerhouse is required for entry.

Apart from these Seven classifications there are numerous Sea Clans beneath them, that are difficult to count. They are not referred to as 'Sea Clan' and are collectively known as the Sea Groups.

The Legendary Sea Alchemists
Ha Shi
,
Xue Lai
 and
An Sen
, who are Ninth-Tier Alchemists, have the same prestige as the Four Great Sea Kings.

Locations

Northern Sea

Southern Sea

Fufen Tribe

(Fourth-Rate — They were the rulers of the tribes near them — Destroyed by
Wei Qing
)

Yicheng Tribe

(Fifth-Rate — Destroyed by a
Li Yunxiao
)

Fire Fish Tribe

(Fifth-Rate — Former Second/Third-Rate Tribe)

Kunwu Divine Tree

Eastern Sea

Guang Clan

(First-Rate — The Royal Clan & the Rulers of the entire Eastern Sea)

Xiankong Island

Rain Land

Yicheng Tribe

(Second-Rate — Destroyed by the Vanquisher Martial Sovereign – ⁣
Gu Feiyang
)

Western Sea

Hidden Families

Rainbow Mist

The Rainbow Mist Sea is a highly unique phenomenon in the open sea. The once tranquil sea surface suddenly becomes covered in a rainbow-like multicolored mist, blanketing everything. Even divine senses struggle to penetrate it for long distances. Once the rainbow mist phenomenon appears, the original sea area becomes unrecognizable; this mist can create spatial channel effects. Those who enter it will simultaneously be transported to an unknown sea area. Therefore, the Rainbow Mist Sea holds immense exploratory value. A chart that marks a fixed Rainbow Mist Sea is a priceless treasure, with immeasurable value. Of course, the risks are also great. If it leads directly to the territory of high-level sea creatures, it would result in complete tragedy.

Sea Creatures/Demonic Beasts

In the sea, sea creatures can exert their unique advantages, while humans can only hunt those of lower realms. Generally speaking, as long as you don't venture into deeper waters, there won't be too much danger. However, precisely because of this, the safe zones have already been hunted out, leading many hunting parties to take risks and venture into deeper waters for higher profits.

Purple-Patterned Nine-Infant Serpents
(Violet Nine-Striped Moths or Purple-Striped Nine Nascent Serpents)

The Purple-Patterned Nine-Infant Serpent is rumored to possess the bloodline of an
Ancient True Dragon
.

In its infancy, it's merely at the Sixth-Rank Demonic Beast.

Upon maturity, it automatically evolves to the Seventh-Rank Demonic Beast.

If it can survive for over 500+ years, it can further evolve to the Eighth-Rank Demonic Beast.

The Purple-Patterned Nine-Infant Serpent with a lifespan of 1000+ years can even break through to the Ninth-Rank Demonic Beast.

Beyond the Ninth-Rank, if it can withstand the tribulation of the heavens, it can transform from a False-Dragon or a Serpent into a True Dragon. Regaining the bloodline of an Ancient True Dragon and advancing into the realm of the Ten-Directions Divine Realm.

Trivia

the royal families of the four Seas were a race that had a more successful inheritance. Although the power of their bloodline was still declining with the passage of time, they were still much stronger than other Dragon descendants.

Notable People

See this Category:
Four Seas Category