After
Li Yunxiao
 invaded the
Land of Rain
, the sacred territory of the
Southern Sea
, under the orders of the Southern Sea King,
Guangxian
, He is surrounded by several Dragon Guards due to desecrating the tombs there.

Dragon Head Guangfa, leader of the Dragon Guards, clashes with Che You after he acquires the
Dragon Treasure
 Body. During the battle, both summon one of the
Four Swords
 that make up the legendary World Sword of the first True Dragon.

But when they noticed that their strengths were equal, they were hesitant to use the legendary weapons. Until the sky was torn apart by Li Yunxiao's withdrawal of the
Dragon Hammer
, which results in the emergence of the forbidden place of the Land of Rain, the birthplace of
Shi
, the first Son of the True Dragon
Yin Yu
.

After coming face to face with Shi colossal eyes, they hear a sigh and narrowly escape inevitable death at the hands of the True Dragon Breath of the eldest of the
Nine Dragons
.

Some time later, during the confrontation between the
Guang Yuan
 forces and the
Guangxian
 forces, they are trapped in a seal, which is broken with a blow from Guangfa Limitless Tribulation, which appears on the spot. Upon encountering Li Yunxiao, he tries to eliminate him, until he is stopped by
Narcissus
.

Guangfa expresses indifference upon learning of Narcissus status, and attempts to kill her as well, until a
shadow
 emerges from the girl body to protect her. After trying a few more attacks and almost killing Li Yunxiao, a Divine Consciousness appeared under Narcissus body again.

When facing the
Ocean Emperor
 who asked Guangfa to let them both go, he once again expressed dissatisfaction and contempt for the Ocean Emperor status, which shocked everyone. But, Bo Long, noticing that his status alone is not enough, steals Amithaba Golden Lotus from Guang Yuan and asks if he will listen to him, which surprises Guangfa and leaves him with no option.

With that, he reveals his name to Guang Yuan and Guangxian who are astonished by his identity and choose to lower their heads and leave with him without a fight.

Years later, Yin Yu returns to the Land of Rain, kills Shi, and takes Guangfa, the Rank A Clans, and Royal Families of the Four Seas as his soldiers. During the battle in the
Sea Forest
, due to Yin Yu injuries, Guangfa willingly gives himself to his Master as a tonic to recover his forms.