He is a Two-Star Martial Supreme and the Vice-Leader of the
Rookie Mercenary Group
. His son
Hai Lin
 suffering from a tyrannic illness that is related to the bloodline power of a Desolate Kun Bull, an ancient earth-type demonic beast.

Plot

Rookie Mercenary Group

He seeks
Li Yunxiao
's help to save his son,
Hai Lin
. An expert once left a method to extract the divine body's power to suppress Hai Lin's bloodline, but it would render the person with the divine body cultivation-less.

Hai Beifei believes that Li Yunxiao's arrival was an opportunity sent by heaven to save Hai Lin. He offers Li Yunxiao the position of the eighth team captain in their mercenary group, as well as assistance in improving his formula path. However, in return, Hai Beifei asks Li Yunxiao to sacrifice his divine body and cultivation to suppress Hai Lin's bloodline power.

Li Yunxiao refuses the offer, suspecting that Hai Beifei would have forcibly extracted his divine body's power if he hadn't saved Hai Lin and the group. He confronts Hai Beifei and warns him not to force him into such a situation.

After witnessing Li Yunxiao's powerful display of strength and the extraordinary nature of his divine body and demonic flame, Hai Beifei becomes cautious and refrains from forcing Li Yunxiao to sacrifice his divine body for Hai Lin's sake. Li Yunxiao reveals his intention to go to the Ancient Desolate Lands for training and seeks information on how to get there.

Hai Beifei reveals that he knows how to reach the Ancient Desolate Lands, but it requires the use of the Eternal Evergreen Tree, which is difficult to find due to its mobility and rarity. However, he informs Li Yunxiao that the Eternal Evergreen Tree is the only entrance to the Ancient Desolate Lands, which is located in the Outer Space.

Realizing the significance of the tree, Li Yunxiao and Hai Beifei decide to work together to find the Eternal Evergreen Tree to enable Li Yunxiao's entry into the Ancient Desolate Lands. In return, Li Yunxiao promises to help Hai Lin with his bloodline issue once they obtain the wood element essence from the tree.

Hai Beifei makes Li Yunxiao the captain of the eighth team in the rookie mercenary group during the search for the Eternal Evergreen Tree, allowing Li Yunxiao access to more resources and support from the group.