One of the greatest talents on the
Tianwu Continent
. Already being a high-rank
Martial Sovereign
, when still in her twenties, few people can rival her. She is a direct disciple of
Qu Hongyan
.

Personality

Junting has always been a sensible, stubborn but highly calculative, always scheming and leveraging others' strength to achieve his goals. However, he often underestimates the impact of his own power, relying too much on manipulation. This flaw has led to repeated misjudgments, Although she can be a little temperamental sometimes, she can still distinguish right from wrong in the face of major issues.

Appearance

A touch of red flashed across her face, and her eyes flickered like the moon shining on the cold river, giving people a cold and ethereal feeling. As the poem slowly fell, her peerless beauty gradually revealed itself. She was as misty as the light clouds covering the moon, and as fleeting as the snow returning to the wind.

History

Getting news about Yunxiao and his treasures she tries many times to set him up and even kill him, but fails each time.

After Li Yunxiao's identy as Gu Feiyang is revealed she gets more desperate in ending Yunxiao's live. It's revealed that she is secretly in love with her Master Qu Hongyan and can't bear that she has been rejected.

In her last attempt to kill Li Yunxiao she reveals that she loves her Master,
Qu Hongyan
, and is extremely envious and hateful towards Yunxiao for that reason. Yunxiao manages to capture her and imprisons her in his
Divine Realm Tablet
 and to later hand her over to Qu Hongyan to punish.

Qu Hongyan can't bear to kill her and just imprisons her in the Sect.

Technique

Butterfly Transformation—two seven-colored orbs appeared, releasing a surge of mystical runes. Like a peacock spreading its tail, the radiant symbols bloomed, swiftly transforming into magnificent wings.

Trivia

When Gu Feiyang die at
Tiandang Mountains
 she sent people into tiandang mountain several times to get his body out.

Later, she revealed the reason why she hated Li Yunxiao so much and confessed her true feelings about her master.

References