This page is a
Stub
.
The page desperately needs your informations about
Haolian Shaohuang
.
Please help by
contributing
 your
informations
 and
knowledge
 about
The Ultimate of All Ages/The Eternal Supreme
 to help us
improve
 the
Eternal Supreme Wiki
.

Haolian Shaohuang

Chronology

Cultivation

Techniques

Relationships

He greatly respects his
Master
. Although his cultivation talent is only mediocre among Gu Feiyang's disciples, through hard work and perseverance he manages to step into the Martial Sovereign Realm. His fist intent is unparalleled amongst his peers, since he solely focusses on improving his fist techniques.

Appearance

He is tall and has robo bust body, his eyes are dark yellow such as his hair as well, having blue marks around his body. While also having a light-ish yet dark gloves with an open coat-like. Without wearing a shirt under it. Keeping it open to all.

Personality

Haolian Shaohuang is a bold and carefree individual, known for his ruffian nature and straightforward attitude. He often speaks without restraint, displaying a playful and flirtatious side, especially when it comes to women. Despite his crude humor and brash behavior, Haolian is loyal and reliable when it comes to serious matters.

Background

Breaking through to the Nine Heavens Realm can't be done just by seclusion. It requires a great opportunity. So, He selected the Demon Origin Plains as a seclusion place to find his own opportunity to break through to Martial Sovereign.

In the past, he was
Li Yunxaio
 (Gu Feiyang) 4th discipline, 50 years ago. His master Gu Feiyang only taught him Vajra Fist technique at Lingxaio peak. On a mountain. covered with snow. Not teaching him anything else, and so- Haolian Shaohuag trained every day on the same technique.

Plot

After breaking through to the Martial Sovereign realm, Haolian Shaohuang returned to Qingge Forest with his mercenary group. he led a campaign against rival factions that refused to unite under his banner. One by one, he crushed those who resisted, showing no mercy to those who stood in his way. By the end of his conquest, only one mercenary group remained.

Trivia

Reach One-Star Martial Sovereign with the help of
Yunxiao
 and
Evergreen Tree

Reach Two-Star Martial Sovereign cultivating in
Divine Realm Tablet

References