Background

Back then, as a ranking battle of the Heaven & Earth power chart, the
Tyrant Martial Sovereign
 and the
Vanquisher Martial Sovereign
  fought for many days and nights, shattering the Heaven & Earth, and even causing the entire Holy City to nearly collapse. In the end, Because
Tyrant
's Physique was so strong that he could resist
Vanquisher
's Primordial Qi, and his advantage grew greater as the battle approached the end,
Vanquisher
 was forced to admit defeat.

History

Originally the Tyrant Body Tempering Technique was in possession of the
Ten Thousand Treasure Store
, they obtained it by chance in a huge treasure, which led to the establishment of the Chamber of Commerce. The Tyrant Body Tempering Art can't be passed down by normal means. So they sold the medium of inheritance to the
Ao Clan
, which are proficient in body cultivation.

The only one sucessfully inheriting it was
Ao Changkong
 and
Ao Wuxin
. He later gave the first part back to Ten Thousand Treasure Store's leader
Wan Yiqian
, who then gave that first part to
Gu Feiyang
 as an "experiment", without the latter knowing about its incompleteness. Since he has been reborn as Li Yunxiao he started cultivating the tyrant body tempering technique.

Informations

The Heavenly Tyrant Body Tempering Technique
 is famous for being the ultimate martial arts and the masterpiece of the
Tyrant Martial Sovereign
 one of the Ten Titled/Conferred Martial Sovereigns.

This technique is the strongest body tempering technique known to man.

After training in the
Tyrant Body Tempering Technique
, The strength of the physical body is split into three layers:

A BODY LIKE GLASS:
 The Realm of a Body of glass is reforming one physical body, Purging impurities and strengthening the physique reaching the state of a perfect body.

THE UNYIELDING TYRANT PHYSIQUE:
 It builds on the foundation of a body of glass to evolve the power of an unyielding tyrant. It is the extreme strength hidden in one's body. Tyrannical strength like steel, Shredding everything in its way.

THE IMMORTAL GOLDEN BODY:
 It is like a Xuan Artifact refined to the extremes  with the world as tripod and his body as mold.

If one achieves The Immortal Golden Body, They can ascend to becoming a saint immediately. At the wave of a hand or a single step, Mountains will collapse and the ground will crack!

Usage

If the martial artist practicing this technique, when he get slugged by the opponent the punch will flowing into the Dantian and the body will absorb the impacts and converting them into Yuan Qi.

Like all Body Tempering Techniques its final goal is to help the Martial Artist open the bodys 8 Gates.

Users

Ao Changkong
 (Complete Technique)

Li Yunxiao
 (First Half)

Meng Bai
 (First Half)

Mo Xiaochuan
 (First Half)

Haolian Shaohuang
 (First Half)

Trivia

Gu Fei Yang
 obtained the
Heavenly Tyrant Body Tempering Technique
 of the
Tyrant Martial Sovereign
 by chance.

References