Jia Rong
 is an Alchemist of The Tianshui Alchemist Association. He first met
Li Yunxiao
 when he came to the Alchemists Association looking for
Yang Di
.

Appearance

A man in a black robe. His robe was typical of an alchemist’s, and he had a curved badge hung over his shoulder, with a bright, glaring blood-red mark streaked across its surface.

Personality

As an Alchemist,
Jia Rong
 has an arrogant and conceited personality, but on the other hand, It is likable and flattering to his
Master
.

Background

Before taking The Alchemy Exam,
Jia Rong
 used the
Yin Wind Stone
 to increase his alchemy skills and used
Blood Flame Orchid
 to reduce its poisonous side effects.  But he didn't know, in fact, that he had to cut off his hand and destroy his Dantian to survive the true poisonous side effects.

History

The Arrogant Alchemist

Jia Rong
, showed an arrogant and disrespectful personality towards
Li Yunxiao
, when he threw the ingredients paper he wrote and
….

Jia Rong: What is this??!  I didn't say or do anything of that!!!  It's a lie cough, Yes, this is all a lie cough, cough, Now I will tell you the True Story:

The Favorite Servant

On the first day that I met
Li Yunxiao
, I discovered the intensity of his greatness and his light. Immediately and without hesitation, I accepted that I would become his sole and loyal servant. From that moment on, We continued our journey as a master and a servant. We faced difficulties and enemies, and every victory we achieve, My Master looks at me and hits me… Ah?!!!, I mean, he thanks me for being always on his side…

A Person:

What an arrogant master!! Why does he hit you when you are always on his side?

Jia Rong: The Fxck You Say?!! What nonsense!!, who are you, and who told you something shameless like this??

A Person: First I'm the writer of this article, second you said that.

Jia Rong: What?! Cough, I didn't say such a thing, and could not say such a thing about my master...

The Writer: Ah, O-okay.

Cultivation

Alchemy Rank

Novel

Manhua

1. Rank-One

Start

Start

2. Rank-Two

64

3. Rank-Three

215-220

200

4. Rank-Four

5. Rank-Five

1920

References