Li Huachi
 (厉华池), the
Heavenly Zither Martial Sovereign
 (天琴武帝), the
Fifth-Ranked Martial Sovereign
 on the
Heaven and Earth Power Chart
 and he is one of
Gu Feiyang
's old friends. If the Martial Sovereigns were a God-level Existences in the
Tianwu Continent
, then the Conferred Martial Sovereigns are the True Gods.

Plot

Martial Flame Crisis

After the collapse of the
Sumero Mountain Secret Realm
,
Yanwu City
 turns into a cultivation paradise. Yunxiao, knowing that trouble is around the corner, sents someone to redeem the favor, which Li Huachi owes him.

When he arrived in Yanwu City, he encountered the powerful and tyrannical
Constellation Old Monster
, who had been causing trouble and wanted to seize control of the city.

Li Huachi intervened to protect Yanwu City, owing a favor to Gu Feiyang there. He engaged in a brief confrontation with Constellation Old Monster and effortlessly countered his powerful Raging Waves Technique with his Divine Charm, a segment of ancient divine music played on his zither. Li Huachi's mastery over the zither and his overwhelming strength caused Old Monster to suffer a humiliating defeat, and he disintegrated into dust with a single move from Li Huachi.

Afterward, Li Huachi chased away the Constellation Sect disciples who had fled in fear, demonstrating his might as a Titled Martial Sovereign. He then sensed the presence of someone hiding in the void and demanded they reveal themselves. Two black silhouettes emerged, one of them accompanied by a silver-white demonic beast with a golden horn on its forehead.

He encountered
Yao Jinliang
, another Titled Martial Sovereign, and his powerful demonic beast and Kun Nu. Yao Jinliang demanded the Meng siblings, who were hidden in the World God Monument at that time. Li Huachi confronted them and refused to let them take the siblings. However,
Wei Qing
, a mysterious figure, arrived, and it was revealed that he was using a divine will to communicate through Kun Nu. Li Huachi and Li Yunxiao were surprised by Wei Qing's appearance.

Li Huachi threatened to kill Wei Qing's divine will if they acted recklessly. Yao Jinliang and Wei Qing then used a technique to search for the Meng siblings. Li Yunxiao set-up restrictions in the World God Monument to protect them, but Wei Qing's transcendent-grade profound artifact began to break the realm, and Li Huachi reluctantly agreed to help find the siblings to prevent the destruction of the southern region, with one tune he made all the people below to fell asleep for three days.

In the end, Wei Qing and Yao Jinliang left, and Li Yunxiao became less visible in Yanwu City after the incident. After that incident, the
Holy Region
 issues an iron law that no one, other than people from the Souther Region, is allowed to interfere in Yanwu City's matter.

Relationships

Xue Chenxi

He is secretly in love with her for a long time.

References