Lady Lin
 is an ancient and powerful figure with deep connections to the
Realm of Heavenly Martial Arts from 100.000 Years ago
. She was one of the
Four World Kings
 in the past and bore the title of
Empress of Ten Thousand Monsters
, signifying her unparalleled status and strength in the Monster realm. Her influence and power once surpassed even that of
Ling Mudi
 and others King.

Appearance

Lin possesses an unreal, otherworldly beauty, a face so flawless that it seems like a miracle of creation. Even Li Yunxiao, who had seen countless beauties and had spent years with Qu Hongyan, found himself momentarily dazed by her presence.

If Qu Hongyan's beauty is considered the pinnacle of mortal perfection, then Lin's appearance transcends reality, almost as if it does not belong to this world. Her beauty is so striking that everyone, regardless of gender, reacts with awe upon seeing her for the first time.

Background

After a catastrophic battle in the past,
Lady Lin lost her main body
 and was reduced to only a
clone
,  later she and her subordinates lived in the
Eternal World
, a secret Realm inside the Mystic Realm
Langya Heaven
.  sustained by the power of twelve Heavenly Phoenix Feathers. The power of these feathers allowed her to survive for 100,000 years, but the remaining three feathers were running out of power, making her existence increasingly fragile. because of this she was trapped in her current state and could not leave her sanctuary.

Plot

Yunxiao and other factions entered the Eternal World, with the intention to find the Phoenix Feathers to help
Fei Ni
. Lin, who has fallen from the World King Realm due to injuries from the Demon War, gave Yunxiao a chance to obtain the Phoenix Feathers, which is benefical for
Fei Ni
's cultivation.

Wu Dacheng
,
Wei Qing
,
Yao Jinliang
 and other allies of them arrived and interferred with Yunxiao to obtain the Phoenix Feathers. After killing Yao Jinliang they agreed to hold a small competition between Yunxio and
Wu Dacheng
(
Yin Yu
)
, to decide the owner of the tue tail Phoenix Feathers.

For one month lin help Yunxiao of  his preparation breaking through, improving techniques  and even show Yunxiao the fight between her and
Yin Yu
 in the past. to give yunxiao higher chance of winning. with it yunxiao manages to win the fight and almost Killed
Yin Yu
. But
Feng Yaoli
 interfere, and unwilling to give up on the Phoenix Feathers. Soon after, other hidden experts who had been silently observing the situation began to reveal themselves, drawn by Lin’s condition.

With Lin, Can, and Hou’s assistance, Yunxiao and the others managed to escape.

Yunxiao puts them in his
World God Monument
, Lin only being a weak Soul after her strength is greatly exhausted.

[...]

Helping Yunxiao escape from the 10th rank Xuan Artifacts space of the
Eye Race
 she arrives at the end of her lifespan and dies together with her loyal subordinates Can and Hou.

Trivia

Yuxiao Found a statue of her in Outer Space where
Di Jun
 sealed that made of with calestial azure gold and one made of
Southern fire golden crystal essence
 at the one in the outer space in the treasure of the North Scorpion sect.

True Tail Feather she kept  for 100,000 years. There are only four people in the world that I can give it to. One is the Heavenly Phoenix Nirvana Body, one is the Lord of the World God Monument, one is the King of Ten Thousand Monsters, and the last one, Yin Yu.

On his journey Yunxiao found statues of her and despite his high soul cultivation he was strongly influenced by the statues alone.

Ever since she could remember, she had never lost a beauty contest, no matter in front of anyone.

References