The
Demon Emperor
's personality split into two: One “good” and one “evil”. Lord Pu represents the “good” personality. For 100,000 years, they had been mortal enemies, constantly seeking to devour each other in an endless struggle for dominance. Their conflict shaped the fate of the demon race, with neither willing to yield until only one remained.

Personality

He is cold, aloof and  does not have that kind of evil hostility.

Appearance

He hasas three heads and six arms.

History

Sealed in the
Southern Region
, which turned it from the most prosperous with the highest Qi density into the worst of the
Four Regions
. The Qi concentration became by a large margin the thinnest on the Tianwu Continent. None of the Major Forces and Business Alliance Perpetual Chambers have their headquarters in the Southern Region, at most some small branches are set up.

Plot

Crimson Crescent City

During a large battle against the monster race in near
Crimson Crescent City
, Lord Pu descended upon Yunxiao, severely wounded and near death body. Lord Pu sought to fulfill Lin Yunxiao’s dying wish to purge the resentment and obsession lingering within him. By doing so, Lord Pu could fully merge with Lin Yunxiao body, gaining complete control of it would also allow his true body to descend, unlocking even greater power. Lord Pu easily contending with several Peak Nine-Star Martial Sovereigns and
Divine Transcendence
 Masters. Only by the joint effort of numerous factions from the
Human Race
 forces as well as the help of the
Ocean Emperor
 descent, they managed to seal Lord Pu in Yunxiao body.

Lord Pu had tried many times to regain control over Li Yunxiao body, but he only helped him to use the
Six Paths Demon Artifact
. After much difficulty in sealing Lord Pu's clone, Yunxiao unintentionally manages to completely seal it into his body by strengthening the Chains of Law with the celestial phenomenon of his ascension to the Nine Star Peak of the
Martial Sovereign Realm
.

Devil Sealing Grounds of the Southern Domain

After Yunxio fight with
Yin Yu
 that lead to the destruction of the
Universe Light Plate
, a powerful space turbulence was triggered, swallowing
Li Yunxiao
 and transporting him to the
Devil Sealing Grounds
 in the
Southern Domain
.

in the Thirty-Three Heavens, Li Yunxiao meet the
Western Region King
 that being trap for 100.000 years. later Western Region King, Yunxiao and lord pu decided to work together to dismantle the powerful array formation. But after Yunxiao enter the first level where Lord Pu sealed, the First Heaven, lord Pu absorb the magic power from the Emperor Clone within Yunxiao body that was amplified during all this time in the Protagonist body, allowing him to reclaim a portion of his lost strength.

With this regained power, Lord Pu aimed to seize control of the Six Magic Soldiers,Using this to fight the Seal Formation Spirit Dragon Turtle. After enduring a long and grueling battle Which causes a crack in the First Heaven and allows Li Yunxiao and the Eastern Region King to escape.

Later, during the battle against
Yin Yu
 and
Qiu
 in the Sea Forest, the Sea Goddess
Bo Mu
 reveals that she was previously a demonic slave of Lord Pu, proving this with both the demonic golden blood and the appearance of the Sea Goddess Palace, or rather, the Holy Demon Hall. After some intrigue in the battle, Lord Pu appears in Bo Mu body and fights
Feng Yaoli
, until it is again suppressed by the Incomplete Divine Art of Lord
Nine Abyss
.

After these events, Lord Pu Demonic Qi condenses above
Martial Flame City
 to contact Li Yunxiao about
Di Jia
 death, and that they should be on the lookout for it. After completely breaking the seal, Lord Pu heads to the Demon Realm to confront
Yuan
, meeting Li Yunxiao in a connection between the users of the Six Paths Demonic Artifacts. Where he suppresses the appearance of the Technique in the Book, the last Demonic Artifact of the Six Paths.

Arranging to meet in Tianhan City, Li Yunxiao is late arriving in the city and Yuan defeats and arrests Lord Pu, who is released due to the battle against the
Six Wings
 Clone. After briefly telling him about the last Demonic Artifact of the Six Paths, the Book, he begins a fight with Six Wings that seemingly creates a hole in the Realm. Dying in the battle.

Power

The Six Paths Demonic Weapon is a Heavenly Saint Tool, far surpassing ordinary Saint tools. Its power has completely exceeded the rules of the Heavenly Martial Realm. Even the laws of heaven and earth no longer dare to interfere or suppress it, making it an existence beyond the control of the heavens.

Trivia

Although Lord Pu also a demon master, his strength is far inferior.

In the sealed land, Lord Pu fought countless battles against the Array Spirit Dragon Turtle for 100,000 years but never won.