Lu congzi, The chief Alchemist was the leader of the sea of soul formation and the president of The Alchemist Association.

Appearance

An elderly man with white hair and a face etched with deep wrinkles, Though his aged appearance suggested frailty, his sharp, star-like eyes revealed the wisdom and authority of a true leader.

Personality

Lu Congzi is a devilish individual who cares about absolutely nothing but himself and his own glory on the path to the heaven of the Mystic Arts. Being cold and cruel to the point of even modifying his own daughter emotions and body to achieve his goals.

Background

Lu Congzi was the last Chief of the
Sea of Soul Formation
, one of the two Cultivation Sacred Lands of the
Tianwu Continent
, and one of the top powerhouses of the
Heavenly Martial Realm
, having power and authority comparable to the most powerful Clans of the Ocean Abyss, the
Heavenly Night Palace
, and others.

Therefore, Lu Congzi is the supreme face of all modern Alchemists. He was originally one of the two Disciples of the former Sea of Soul Formation Master,
Yu Shengfeng
, the heir to the lineage of Masters who followed the teachings of
Yu Yixian
, a demonic slave of the
Demon Emperor Di
.

Backstory & Plot

After discovering that his Master planned to use his body as a vessel for the “afterlife inheritance” experiment to obtain the
Extreme Yin Divine Body
, he manipulated the situation to make his Master place the Neonite Stone into the body of
Bo Yuqing
, his brother-disciple, with this, they killed Yu Shengfeng together, but they were unable to eliminate his Soul, which wandered until it found the Rainbow Powder.

After becoming the Master of the Sea of Soul Formation, he took in a young red-haired girl as his daughter and trained her to become one of the elites of the Sea of Soul Formation,
Liu Feiyan
. And after consolidating his position, he began to silently spread the use of the
Demonic Qi
 present in the Devi Well for the use of Alchemy and Martial Arts. Reaching greater heights of power and techniques.

During the arrival of
Ai
, the great Alchemist of the Monster Race in the human territories, both
Tian Zhao Zi
 and Lu Congzi were hesitant about confronting the young woman, until Liu Feiyan recommended that they call
Gu Feiyang
, who accepted after Lu Congzi bestowed a Tenth-Grade Herb on him. With Gu Feiyang victory, he didn't need to risk his public image.

After learning of the incidents in
Crimson Crescent City
 involving his former Master and brother-disciple, Lu Congzi ordered his adopted daughter to go there and capture Bo Yuqing. After Bo Yuqing arrived at the Sea Soul Formation, he had made his brother-disciple mind, or at least he thought he had, and brought him to his side.

After
Li Yunxiao
 arrived in Lu Congzi territory after the events of the Human vs. Monster War, he once again bestowed the title of Honorary Elder of the Sea of Soul Formation to Li Yunxiao, so that he would be stuck to it.

With the arrival of Yu Shengfeng at the place after the promise made by his Master to Liu Feiyan,
Xuan Hua
 and Li Yunxiao, Lu Congzi remained quiet and apathetic towards his Master provocations, as he noticed that one of the figures beside his Master was
Perfected Meng Ling
, a figure he could not risk facing.

But, he ordered
Yuan De
 to test his Master's strength, hoping to know if he had truly reached the
Physical Body Harmonization Stage
, after the battle, He faces Li Yunxiao and Yu Shengfeng in the secret space below the entrance to the
Demon Realm
, and after hearing Bo Yuqing psychological revelation, Yu Shengfeng dies on the spot at the hands of his brother-disciple.

In the
Eternal World
, Lu Congzi appears during
Yin Yu
 and Li Yunxiao battle and attempts to steal the
Divine Realm Tablet
, but is stopped by the
Xuanli Island

Saber King
. And is forced to reveal his trump card, summoning a
Second Grade Demon Lord
 into his body, and fighting with the
Hao Feng
. Until he causes the
Demon Commander Man
 to appear in Yin Yu body, which is expelled soon after.

Some time later, the
Heavenly Martial Alliance
 and the
Mysterious Island of Severing
 go after the Demonic Cultivators and Lu Congzi in the Sea of Soul Formation.

After starting to work with
Demon Commander

Man
, Lu Congzi began to develop new Demon lifeforms and equipment that could withstand the Power of the Realm. Sending several
Extreme Virtual Realm
-level Demons against Li Yunxiao and
Ye Nantian
's subordinates, Lu Congzi leaves them trapped in a magical mist with Demonic properties.

Inside the Devil Well, Lu Congzi traps Ye Nantian who self-destructs one of the layers of Noah's Ark to escape. Later, Li Yunxiao and the others reach the secret space below the Devil's Well, where they see Ye Nantian defeated and trapped by the demons in the Wall of Demonic Faces.

After the battle, Lu Congzi goes to the
Devil Realm
 and works with Man to steal a
Demonic Monkey Egg
 auctioned in Falling Star City. Which results in a battle between the forces of Falling Star City, Lu Congzi and Li Yunxiao's forces.

After fleeing, Man and Lu Congzi return to Extreme Emperor City in the Man Tribe territory, after absorbing the Demonic Monkey Egg and a Golden Egg prepared as a tonic to increase
Li Yi
 que power by
Six Wings
, Lu Congzi betrays Man and kills him by stealing his body, as he had modified the Demonic Monkey Egg and taken control of Man without him noticing.

During the battle that was currently taking place against Li Yunxiao and his companions, Lu Congzi reveals that the new demonic lifeforms created by him were the people of the Sea of Soul Formation, including Xuan Hua and Liu Feiyan, with everyone losing control of their minds to Lu Congzi.

This experiment fused the properties present in the Laws of the
Heavenly Martial Realm
 and the
Demon Realm
, allowing all individuals to reach the level of a Second Grade Demon Lord, with some reaching the level of a Peak Demon Lord.

Seeing this scene, Li Yunxiao exudes extreme anger and goes after Lu Congzi who thought he could kill him with his new level of power, but, he is surprised after Li Yunxiao uses the
Sword that Will Rise and Fall
, revealing the strength of a World King of the Hundred Tribulations Realm, which scares Lu Congzi.

Becoming desperate, Lu Congzi says countless things trying to make Li Yunxiao spare his life, but all his efforts are in vain when Li Yunxiao uses the Sword that Will Rise and Fall to its fullest, eliminating Lu Congzi with his trademark attack, “Sword Technique: Sword Cuts Stars”.

Trivia

Yu Shengfeng
 state In terms of intelligence, In the past hundreds of years, the only person who can be mentioned as Lu Congzi equal in his eyes is  li Yunxiao.