This page is a
Stub
.
The page desperately needs your informations about
Luan Junhao
.
Please help by
contributing
 your
informations
 and
knowledge
 about
The Ultimate of All Ages/The Eternal Supreme
 to help us
improve
 the
Eternal Supreme Wiki
.

Personality

Luan Junhao had always been timid, deeply fearing death. In the past, he had even cried and begged the Palace Master to save him. Having spent his entire life serving Shenxiao Palace, it was no surprise that he lacked true courage, willing to submit to any master for survival.

Plot

Luan Junhao was a peak Nine Heavens Realm expert who, during Gu Feiyang's visit to Shenxiao Palace, was invited to fight alongside the Palace Mistress and 9 other Martial Sovereigns who reached the 9 Stars. But with a single attack from the Wind and Cloud Palm, all 10 9-Star Martial Sovereigns were partially crippled and incapacitated, Luan Junhao had recovered his Martial Arts foundation and his Dao Heart after receiving the Immortal Elixir from Shenxiao Palace.

It took Luan Junhao dozens of years to almost fully recover, but he is still a peak expert in the Nine Heavens Realm, as he has acquired an age-old move that once dominated the World in the hands of a peerless expert, therefore, his overall strength does not differ from an Expert at the peak of the Peak Stage of a Martial Sovereign of the Nine Heavens Realm.

Afterwards, he was hired by the Head of the Star and Moon School to help the Eight Elephants and their affiliates acquire Gu Feiyang's Star Extinction Sword that had been stolen by the Eight Elephants during a Thousand Treasures Shop in New Yan City, which caused the deaths of the Eight Elephants members in the process, but Mr. Quan, a member of the Monster Race, resolved to complete the mission, sending the Star Extinction Sword in an Interspatial Ring to Luan Junhao, who resolved to traverse the path of the Void and come face to face with the Great Elder of the Thousand Treasures Lodge.

Power

Despite possessing considerable martial talent, he lacked the heart of a true powerhouse. Without the unwavering will to advance, his path in the martial world was destined to remain stagnant, forever falling short of true greatness.