This page is a
Stub
.
The page desperately needs your informations about
Luo Qingyun
.
Please help by
contributing
 your
informations
 and
knowledge
 about
The Ultimate of All Ages/The Eternal Supreme
 to help us
improve
 the
Eternal Supreme Wiki
.

Luo Qingyun

Chronology

Cultivation

Techniques

Relationships

He is a young talent from the
Heavenscent Empire
, he reached the Martial Grandmaster in such a young age for the
Southern Region
.

Appearance

A tall, slender man in a long green robe stood with distinct features, His eyes is yellow with green hair his face as cold as the high-altitude wind. No longer youthful, his expression carried the weight of time, exuding a calm and steady presence.

Personality

He is proud expert who possesses the true dragon's blood will never be willing to be under someone else.

Background

Qingyun, one of many people with dragon bloodline used as test subjects by
Wei Qing
 to creata perfect killing weapon through ruthless experimentation.

Plot

Chu Yu
 was secretly approached by the Zhou Family from the
Fire Crow Empire
, who offered a large bargaining chip to have
Li Yunxiao
 killed during the competition. Chu Yu considered adding a mysterious disciple named
Luo Qingyun
 to participate in the competition, believing that Luo Qingyun will defeat Li Yunxiao.

Mount Meru

He was one of those present in the inner hall of Xumi Temple, where others fought over a profound item used to seal Di Jia. Shortly after Di Jia awoke from his slumber and possessed several participants,  When Di Jia, the Black Demon Shadow, attacked, everyone tried to counter with their martial techniques and powerful armaments, but they were quickly overwhelmed by his immense strength.

Later, when
Xu Qing
 employed the Divine Prayer Technique, Martial Sovereign
Lu Daozi
 descended to confront
Di Jia
. He witnessed the fierce struggle between these mighty forces. As the inner hall neared collapse and the temple’s defenses failed,
Xu Qing
 managed to escape along with
Lu Daozi
,
Cao Yaxing
. He and Li Yunxiao.

In his pursuit of power, Luo Qingyun was even willing to become Wei Qing’s test subject to create the perfect killing machine
Ghost Asura
. During the process, he awakened his bloodline even granting him the ability to control
Ghost Asura
.

the True Tail Feather of the Heavenly Phoenix

When the Realm of Immortality opened, he joined Wei Qing,
Yin Yu
,
Feng Yaoli
, and Wei Wuya in the search for the the True Tail Feather of the Heavenly Phoenix and to eliminate Yunxiao.

During Yin Yu and Yunxiao’s duel, he caught the attention of the Monster Empress,
Lin
, who gave him the opportunity to break through to the Peak Perfection Realm.

Power

The Wild God's Moon Spear/The desolate God’s moon spear was like
Li Yunxiao
 ice sword. They were both obtained from the divine Palace of Mount Meru. They were both Maha ancient weapons,

Trivia

Luo Qingyun, possessed level 10 God blood, was bound to become one of the most dazzling new stars in the world.

Gallery

Transformation
Half-Dragon Transformation
Half-Dragon Form
Dragon's Body Meridians Open
False-Dragon Form
False-Dragon Form