This page is a
Stub
.
The page desperately needs your informations about
Luo Yunshang/Chronology
.
Please help by
contributing
 your
informations
 and
knowledge
 about
The Ultimate of All Ages/The Eternal Supreme
 to help us
improve
 the
Eternal Supreme Wiki
.

Luo Yunshang

Chronology

Cultivation

Techniques

Relationships

Plot

SPOILER ALERT!

She later follows Yunxiao to Gentle Song Forest, where they meet
Haolian Shaohuang
. There Yunxiao leaves for the outer space, while Yunshang stays together with Ding Ling'er at Haolian Shaohuang's place. When they meet up again she stays in Yunxiao's
Divine Realm Talet
 during his travels. After reaching the
Martial Supreme Realm
 she leaves Yunxiao and goes to Heavenly Night Palace to reach the
Extreme Yang Divine Body
 with the help of a
Rainbow stone
. Later Yunxiao visits Heavenly Night Palace and learns that Luo Yunshang and Qu Hongyan went to the "Realm of No Return" in the thousand mountain prefecture in the
Western Region
, in order to completely refine the rainbow stone. After finding both Yunshang and Hongyan he discovers the refinement doesn't work out well. In order to help her he has to destroy a seal on the so-called "
Five Cloud Mountain
", which is a place to seal the demon race in the Realm of No Return. After that Yunxiao left the two of them behind. Meanwhile the Heavenly Night Palace's ancestor Gu Qingqing takes over Luo Yunshangs body. 'Luo Yunshang' manages to seal Hongyan below the "Five Cloud Mountain". Meanwhile several other partys also arrived and managed to destroy the seal on Five Cloud Mountain and a great fight broke out between the human and demon race. Yunxiao discovers Yunshang is possessed and fights Gu Qingqing as well as
Mo
, while Gu Qingqing constantly ridicules him as "little lover". At some point 'Luo Yunshang' opens 7 of the 8 Gates of the humans body in a row, shocking Yunxiao (with the help of the Divine Blood Bead which she snatched from Mo). The blood demon Mo, who was one of the demons sealed in Five Cloud Mountain, places a seal on Gu Qingqing. During the fights Yunxiao convinces 'Luo Yunshang' to release Qu Hongyan. Later 'Luo Yunshang', still possessed by Gu Qingqing who is also in control of the body, gets imprisoned by the blood demon Mo. Before being taken away by Mo, Gu Qingqing gives the Five Cloud Mountain to Yunxiao. She meets up with Li Yunxiao in
Langya Heaven
, where they enter the
Eternal World
. There Gu Qingqing's real body is located. After Gu Qingqing helps fending off enemys with her real body she takes back her soul from Luo Yunshang's body setting her free. Luo Yunshang helps Yunxiao healing his severe injuries through her Nine Yang Body, which represents the extreme Yang while Yunxiao's Bright Moon Body represents the extreme Yin. Hence resonating and giving each other benefits while cultivating. It's implied that Yunxiao managed to improve through her help, and later confirmed that he opened the 8th gate of his body, hence achieving great success.