This page is a
Stub
.
The page desperately needs your informations about
Meng Wu
.
Please help by
contributing
 your
informations
 and
knowledge
 about
The Ultimate of All Ages/The Eternal Supreme
 to help us
improve
 the
Eternal Supreme Wiki
.

Plot

Blue Jewel Academy

To raise money for her little brother, Meng Wu had agreed to help
Lan Fei
 in his scheme to frame Yunxiao. However, she never expected things to go so disastrously. Not only was Lan Fei expelled, leaving her with nothing, but she had also suffered humiliation when Li Yunxiao groped her in
Maple Grove
.

That night, she wept silently in her bed, vowing over and over again that she would one day kill Li Yunxiao. The memory of what he had done to her burned in her heart, filling her with resentment.

Yet, when she finally saw Yunxiao again this time stepping in to help her against a
Man
 who had tried to take advantage of her she found herself powerless against him. Instead of acting on her hatred, she could do nothing but lash out in anger.

The image of Li Yunxiao descending like a mighty figure from the sky during his duel with
Lan Xuan
 had been deeply imprinted in her mind. No matter how much she hated him, she couldn't deny the lingering impression he had left on her. After all, little girls always admired heroes, and a strong man had the power to stir countless emotions and fantasies within them.

Martial Flame City

After the world-shattering battle between two Martial Sovereigns and the emergence of two Titled Martial Sovereigns in Martial Flame City, Meng Wu and her brother,
Meng Bai
, were taken back to the
Holy Region
 by
Wei Qing
. There, Wei Qing placed them in the Shattered Cloud Sky River to cultivate

Shattered cloud sky River /Broken Clouds River

Later, While searching for the Earth Realm and the Yellow Springs Hellfire with Pan Yi and Zhan Chen, Yunxiao encountered Meng Wu. However, just like Meng Bai, she had been placed under a spell by Wei Qing and had no memory of him.

Meng Wu then formed a seal, creating a flying crystal. Without hesitation, Yunxiao used the
Divine Realm Tablet
 to counter it, but to his shock, even this holy artifact was affected the surface became crystallized, and its power was suppressed.

Realizing the danger, Yunxiao unleashed the Ice Fiend Heart Flame and the Xin Guili Flame, causing a dazzling explosion. The immense energy created a massive vortex in the lake, pulling all three of them in. As they were swept along by the spinning force, Yunxiao's eyes remained fixed on Meng Wu.

<nowiki>As the whirlpool carried them apart, Meng Wu looked at Yunxiao and finally asked for his name. Her figure gradually faded into the distance, like a crystal-blue silhouette, disappearing from sight.

Gallery











Date