This page is a
Stub
.
The page desperately needs your informations about
Mo Xiaochuan
.
Please help by
contributing
 your
informations
 and
knowledge
 about
The Ultimate of All Ages/The Eternal Supreme
 to help us
improve
 the
Eternal Supreme Wiki
.








Mo Xiaochuan, was one of the
Gu Feiyang
 disciple.

Personality

He has an unconditional trust in his
Master
 and an extremely outstanding willpower.

Background

Among
Gu Feiyang
 disciples he has the worst talent, at most it can be considered mediocre. But due to his strong willpower and hard work he manages to reach the 3 Star Martial Sovereign Realm upon reuniting with
Li Yunxiao
. From this point onwards he mostly cultivates in the World God Monument and helps his
Master
 in fighting enemys.

History

As a child, he passed through the
Mo Family
 forbidden territory. As a trial to become Gu Feiyang disciple, he underwent a torturous and incomparably agonizing process of pain at the hands of his Ancestor spirit, becoming the scabbard of the Demon-Slaying Sword, a Martial Technique with such strong spiritual force that it is considered a Ninth-Grade Xuan Artifact.

After leaving his
Master
, Mo Xiaochuan returned to the
Mo Family
 in Black Iron City, where the
Ancestral Elder
 passed down
the Thousand Cricket Vast Art
 to him. They warned him not to seek revenge until he had fully mastered it. He trained in seclusion for ten years in the forbidden area, persistently requesting to learn the
Thousand Feet Noble Art
, which the ancestral patriarch finally agreed to teach him.

His peaceful cultivation was disrupted when he learned that his sworn brother,
Mo Huayuan
, had been exiled to South Fire City after offending an expert from the
Holy Region
. Defying the elders' wishes, Mo Xiaochuan left seclusion to protect him. During a fierce battle, he killed three Martial Sovereigns but was severely injured and poisoned by the Northern Underworld Cold Yin Qi, a deadly force injected into him by a hidden expert from
Beiming Dark Palace
. Hua Yuan tried to suppress the poison with medicine, but it only delayed its effects.

Four years ago, Hua Yuan sought rare herbs from the Thunderwind Chamber of Commerce, unintentionally exposing Mo Xiaochuan’s condition. He was handed over to
Ying Lin
, who took him into the Maze in hopes of using him to locate a hidden mine. There, Mo Xiaochuan followed an ancient aura to the Suanni’s Soul Altar, where he encountered a mysterious statue. As he struggled against its corrupting energy, an evil spirit invaded his mind, forcing him into servitude.

Ironically, the Northern Underworld Cold Yin Qi inside him helped resist the spirit’s control, allowing brief moments of clarity. However, as the Yin Qi weakened, his consciousness faded more frequently. Now, with the Yin Qi finally expelled, the evil spirit had been fully suppressed, and he was free at last.

Plot

Southern Fire Crystal Gold Mine

Yunxiao encountered Mo Xiaochuan in the Southern Fire Crystal Gold Mine, where his body had been deeply poisoned, causing him to lose his sanity. However, despite being possessed by a fire-elemental evil spirit from the mine, he had not completely lost his mind evidenced by his ability to use the Floating Life Seal.
Yunxiao and his companions attempted to suppress the possessed Mo Xiaochuan, but they could only wound him, forcing him to flee. Determined, Yunxiao pursued him and engaged in battle once more.
With the aid of the Water of the Hundred Rivers, Yunxiao managed to restrain Mo Xiaochuan and pulled him into the Divine Realm Tablet. With the assistance of the Demonic Dragon and Mo Xiaochuan’s own will, the evil spirit was sealed forcibly confined within his aperture, subdued by the power of his own body.

Trivia

He used The heavenly spirit devil-quelling sword, thousand spirit Haoran art It was the most precious treasure of the mo family in black iron City

References