SPOILER ALERT!

Overview

Spoilers

History (Ch. 287 - 321)

Upon the opening of the Sumeru Mountain Secret Realm above
Martial Flame City
, Yunxiao took control of the arrays, laid out by the experts, which were originally intended to only let people in who obtained or purchased the
quota crystal
.

In order to enter one had to pay a fee to Li Yunxiao to get entry into the secret Realm. After entering the Secret Realm he let
Luo Yunshang
 out of the
Divine Realm Tablet
 and left it behind to absorb the dense spirit qi. Shortly after Yunxiao caught a "
little green demon
" and gave it Luo Yunshang and taught her how to control it (its strong point is high agility).

Shortly after they discover people fighting a
Stone Beast
. While fighting it, the Stone Beast advances from the Martial Grandmaster to the Martial Emperor Realm. Because of that the people decide to run away. While escaping Yunxiao and the others come across a bunch of people who fight for a seven constellation
Dao Fruit
.  Luo Yunshang manages to snatch it with the help of the
little green demon
.

Before people can get agitated about it, the Stone Beast manages to catch up. Sitting in the same boat the people join forces to take it down. After destroying the Stone Beasts physical body its "heart" remains, which allows it to recover its body again. Before that happens Yunxiao manages to subdue it.

After that Wang Qiang, whom Yunxiao saved from the little green demon previously, takes Luo Yunshang hostage in an attempt to get the Dao Fruit. However before Yunxiao can make a move a passage opens and swallows all people present. Yunxiao enters it as well and finds himself in a passage. Wandering in the passage he finds
tadpole-like characters
 on the walls similar to those of his
great expansion divine technique
 and great realm divine technique. He manages to activate those characters which opens up another passage.

Following the passage his Qi greatly increases and he breaks through several stars, furthermore some
mysterious energy
 accumulates in his dantian. At the end of the passageway he finds a jade platform with a
golden sword
 on it. After taking it he arrives inside the so-called Xumi Divine Palace, which gives massive benefits according to legends. Meanwhile the other people who got swallowed by the passage, but didn't activate the characters, arrive outside the Xumi Divine Palace where many other people are also gathered. There Ding Ling'er is also in the crowd and manages to free the hostage taken Luo Yunshang from Wang Qiang.

Ding Ling'er gets into a quarrel with Tang Yuan who tries to pursue her, but Qian Wudi interferes. After that they discover Yunxiao coming out of the Divine Palace, only a barrier separating the two parties. Yunxiao brings the people to humilate Tang Yuang in exchange for opening up the barrier.

After entering the Palace they arrive in a hall. In order to go deeper inside they have to open a sealed stone door. Managing to solve some arrays the door opens up, however without bypassing the dragon pressure one cannot enter. Yunxiao, who obtained
Luo Qingyun
's blood (in previous arcs) can enter together with Ding Ling'er and Luo Yunshang without problems since the blood contains a trace of the dragons bloodline. Arriving in a hall the three meet a
Demon Dragon
 Soul who turns out to be Gu Feiyang's sword spirit.
At that moment Luo Yunshang and Ding Ling'er also learn of Yunxiao's real identity
.

The demon dragon having a grudge with Yunxiao tries to kill the latter. Yunxiao and the two women flee out of the hall, the people still being outside follow up and flee together with Yunxiao. After a short time the Demon Dragon manages to catch up. Yunxiao and the others, forced to fight him, suppress the Dragon Soul and try to capture it. Getting beaten up, the Dragon flees back to the Palace and hides.

Yunxiao who chased the Demon Dragon back to the Palace manages to convice the latter to once again become his sword spirit. Yunxiao learns that the Xumi Divine Palace, he previously was in, only is a "reflection" of the original one. The entrance to the real Palace is at the bottom of the sea of qi nearby. To open the gates to the real palace he uses the
golden sword
, which he previously obtained in the passageway as a key.

Before entering five people appear, who turn out to be disciples from the
seven major forces
.