She is one of the daughters of the former Lord of the
Crimson Crescent
 of
Ning Kewei
 City. She is the most talented expert in Crimson Crescent City in the past two generations of City Lord post, being a
Divine Transcendence
 expert at a particularly young age.

Appearance

The woman was wearing a light yellow long skirt embroidered with blue sea and cloud patterns.

Plot

She became engaged to
Murong Zhu
, a young expert from Purple Cloud Peak, who was killed after the opening of the
Heaven and Earth
 Mystic Realm. This event caused overwhelming desolation and depression for Ning Keyue, who significantly distanced herself from the affairs of Crimson Crescent City and only maintained an open relationship with his disciple
Jiang Ruobing
, daughter of
Jiang Churan
, the City Lord of Crimson Crescent City.

After
Li Yunxiao
 arrived at Crimson Crescent City, he arrived at the cherry blossom garden where Ning Keyue lived, After a little discussion and conversation between the two, Ning Keyue discovers that Li Yunxiao has a relationship with
Gu Feiyang
, and becomes particularly close to him.

After the events of the competition for Jiang Ruobing hand, Ning Keyue helps Li Yunxiao recover with her natural treasures. After the opening of the Heaven and Earth Mystic Realm, Jiang Churan passes the responsibility of taking care of the Sect to his
wife
 and Ning Keyue.

After receiving information about a situation at Purple Cloud Peak, Ning Keyue goes to the location, being dragged into a trap where she fights with
Yang Yuanshu
 who killed all the experts at the Purple Cloud Peak, After subduing Yang Yuanshu, she receives an attack from
Ling Baiyi
 who resented her for humiliating his subordinates and himself when they invaded Crimson Crescent City. But after the coup he leaves.

Thinking that everything was resolved, Ning Keyue finds himself in trouble after one of
Wei Qing
 puppets reveals itself from within the Mountain, which attacks him with Wei Qing Xuan Artifact, thinking that she would die there, Ning Keyue is saved by
Tian Si
, following him after seeing Murong Zhu figure, and later becoming a vessel for Supreme
Gui Xu
.