This page is a
Stub
.
The page desperately needs your informations about
Qian Duoduo
.
Please help by
contributing
 your
informations
 and
knowledge
 about
The Ultimate of All Ages/The Eternal Supreme
 to help us
improve
 the
Eternal Supreme Wiki
.

Qian Duoduo

Chronology

Cultivation

Techniques

Relationships

Plot

Qian Duoduo had been cultivating in
Martial Flame City
, but as the young master of the
Money Sect
, he eventually returned to his clan after breaking through to the Martial Master realm, making a grand display of his power.

When he returned to
Martial Flame City
, he had already reached the peak of Martial Honor, and now, after breaking through to a three-star Martial Emperor, he had become a dominant figure, unrivaled in the Southern Region.

With his return, the
Money Sect
 established a branch in Yanwu City, directly competing with the Tianyuan Chamber of Commerce. Before the Chamber of Commerce underwent major changes, the Li family had aligned with Tianyuan to suppress the
Money Sect
.

Martial Flam City Coup d'état

During the crisis in Martial Flame City, He offer of aid came from the Money Sect, proposing support in exchange for control over north and south sides of the city’s territory. However, Li Chunyang firmly rejected the deal because north and south was most prosperous areas of Yanwu City.

Amidst the turmoil,
Xin Ruyu
, backed by a major force from the Duskflame Empire and supported by one of the Seven Major Powers in Tianwu, took advantage of the chaos to seize control. With Yanwu City's spiritual energy rapidly depleting, he openly declared that the Li family was unfit to rule.

However, he stood in to defend of Martial Flame City effortlessly defeated by Xin Ruyu in a single move, suffering severe injuries.

After Yunxiao stopping Xin Ruyu’s coup, Li Yunxiao formed an alliance between Martial Flame City,
Heavenly Night Palace
, and the
Heavenly Draconic Family
 to counter future threats. Meanwhile, the City Lord’s Mansion merged the
Tianyun Merchant Guild
 and the
Money Sect
 branch into the Yanwu City Chamber of Commerce, with full cooperation from both factions.

With 100,000 years’ worth of sealed spiritual energy soon to be released, Yanwu City was set for massive expansion, becoming a major economic and cultivation hub. Qian Duoduo’s swift actions also cemented the
Money Sect
 influence, securing its place among the continent’s top factions.