Qin was the number one talent among the juniors in the Holy region.he was already a nine-star Martial Sovereign at such a young age.

Personality

Qin Chuan is a
loyal, respectful, and thoughtful
 individual who values family ties despite his complicated background. Raised by
Hei Yuhu
, he is well-trained and disciplined, but he still has a strong sense of morality and sentimentality.

Appearance

A young man was dressed in brocade and had a Jade belt. He had an elegant demeanor.

Background

Qin Chuan (Ding Qin Chuan)
 is
Ding Shan’s long-lost son
, who was raised by
Hei Yuhu
, a powerful figure. Though separated from his father for years, he remained loyal to his upbringing and mentor. When reunited with Ding Shan, he showed
respect and acceptance of their relationship
 but chose to
retain his mother’s surname
, honoring her memory.

Plot

In a tense situation,
Han Junting
 was ready to end her own life, preferring death to being humiliated by Yunxiao. But just before she could act, Qin Chuan appeared and stopped her. Despite the dire situation, Han Junting was furious, but Qin Chuan
confessed
 his feelings for her. Han Junting, coldly dismissing him, set a condition: he had to kill Yunxiao to prove his love. She even promised to marry him if he succeeded in killing Yunxiao.

Qin Chuan, although overwhelmed by the situation, responded that he would try his best to save her, despite knowing he wasn't strong enough to defeat Yunxiao. He offered a deal, suggesting that Meng Wu, the sister of Yunxiao’s disciple, Meng Bai, could be used as leverage to save Han Junting. Yunxiao, however, was skeptical of this trade, mocking Qin Chuan’s futile efforts.

Qin Chuan admitted that he didn’t know where Meng Bai was, but that he could bring Meng Wu in exchange for Han Junting's life. Even though this wasn’t enough, he offered his life in exchange for Han Junting’s life, as long as it was within his power. Yunxiao, unimpressed, dismissed the deal as insufficient. Eventually, he sealed Han Junting’s dantian and imprisoned her, still holding the upper hand. He suggested that if Qin Chuan could help bring
Meng Wu
 and
Meng Bai
,
Han Junting
 would be spared.

Holy Region

Later, he reunited with Li Yunxiao in the Holy Region and informed him about the whereabouts of Meng Wu and Meng Bai, as well as their background. He also revealed why Wei Qing had put so much effort into locating them, even going as far as sending
Yao Jinliang
 to assist in the search for the two siblings.