He is the third son of
Yin Yu
 and the most talented of the Nine Sons. Due to the Laws of the Ten Directions disappearing, his Cultivation stagnated at the peak of the Dharma Body Realm, but, he was the one with the greatest chance among the Nine Sons of entering the World King Realm, or rather, attain the legendary
Sacred Body
.

Plot

After the battle against the Ancestral Mother of Monsters,
Six Wings
, in the Yin Yu Dragon Domain which later became the Land of Ten Thousand Spirits, Qiu asked
Bo Mu
, the Sea Goddess, to guard his Dharma Body beneath the Ocean Emperor Palace so that Yin Yu would not come after him in the future to steal his Dragon Essence.

After the
Eternal World
 merged with the
Heavenly Martial Realm
, and some events occurred,
Li Yunxiao
 and
Duanmu Youyu
 felt bad premonitions and deduce that a terrible event would happen in the
Four Seas
. Later they arrive at the Four Seas with some companions and come face to face with an incredibly strong member of a Clan of the Ocean Depths who intervened between the fighting of two Sea Tribes.

After killing the
Divine Transcendence
 expert of the Ocean Depths Clan, they investigated the battle and asked for information, discovering that an individual named Qiu had caused disasters by the ocean. With that,
Bo Long
 called the
Four Sea Kings
 to the Sea Forest as reinforcements, and thus the Four Kings were no longer in their Palaces and territories.

After arriving at the Sea Forest, Li Yunxiao and his team come face to face with the leaders of the largest Clans in the Deep Sea, one of them being
Gu Hong
 Grandfather, who appears alongside his grandson. These more than half a dozen
Void Prime
 experts discuss with Li Yunxiao and his companions, until Qiu shows his face and Bo Long comes out of the palace to welcome him.

After a great battle,
Bo Mu
 takes on an energy form with her consciousness, practically returning to life. She intervenes in the battle, and Li Yunxiao fights with Qiu, until Yin Yu and
Feng Yaoli
 appear.

After a fierce battle between the forces of Qiu, Yin Yu who was supported by Feng Yaoli and Nine Abyss, inside the Sea Goddess Palace, or rather, the Saint Demon Palace,
Fei Ni
 is enraged by the Qiu words about his kind and kills Qiu, who later emerges in his true body, now with a mere shred of consciousness, which later allows the Evil Spirit (Li Yunxiao's companion), take his body.

During the battle, it is revealed that Yin Yu has subjugated the Four Sea Kings and several of the A-Rank and S-Rank Tribes of the Four Seas to fight for him, which results in their deaths at the hands of Li Yunxiao and his comrades during the battle, leaving the Four Seas leaderless. Among those who were subdued by Yin Yu, there was also the Leader of the Dragon Guards of the Land of Rain, the Dragon Head, who attained Divine Transcendence and died becoming food for Yin Yu.