Heavenly Martial Realm

Human Race

Intelligent Race, appearance of humans. Mainly focus on Qi or Soul Cultivation, with few exceptions cultivating the Physical Body.

They live in...

Tianwu Continent

Four Seas
 (
Hidden Families
)

Holy Region

Sea of Soul Formation

Monster Race

Intelligent Race, appearance similar to humans, when using their innate Abilitys they usually transform. Their physical strength is usually far superior to that of humans, but with a lower understanding of Heaven and Earth. They can also use Qi and Soul Cultivation.

They live in...

Illusory Realm of Stars and Moons

Western Regions Ancient Martial Empire

Sea Race

They live in...

Four Seas

Beast Race

Low intelligence, like wild animals.

They live in...

Found everywhere in the
Heavenly Martial Realm
 including
Mystic Realms
.

True Spirits

They live in...

Said to have gone extinct, lived everywhere in the
Heavenly Martial Realm
.

True Dragons

It is said that the true ancient dragons are born from heaven and earth, a spirit among all beings, yet they cannot reproduce naturally. They can only marry with other strong races to continue their lineage. This scarcity has led to the dragon race becoming |thinner over time, becoming engulfed in the sands of history, and their lineage on the verge of disappearing. They may be among the demon clan. Humans:or other races. Throughout the history of the
Tianwu continent
, from time to time, powerful dragon bloodline warriors appear. And without exception, the one who have the dragon bloodline will become one of the most powerful people in the world in the upcoming time.

Later it's revealed that only one True Dragon can exist at a time. If the True Dragon dies or is about to die, then another one is born from Heaven and Earth.

Pupil Race

The
pupil race
 is an ancient parasitic intelligent race, created in its likeness by
Gui Xu
, this race parasitizes the soul and lives until the soul dies, the host receives varied ocular powers depending on the sub race.

Demon Realm

Devils

Everywhere in the Demon Realm.

Demons are found everywhere in the Heavenly Martial Realm, after they managed to sneak in.

References