She is the Chief of
Empyrean One Pavillion
, a peak expert of the Martial Dao who is in charge of one of the
7 Perpetual Chambers
 of Commerce of the
Alliance Merchant
.

Appearance

A woman in blue palace dress, The woman's blue gauze gown was embroidered with flowing clouds and dark patterns, and her face was cool and beautiful, giving people a sense of astonishment, without a trace of emotion.

Plot

After
Ling Baiyi
 Eight Elephants attempted to steal Gu Feiyang's Star Sword during the
Ten Thousand Treasures Store
 Auction,
Wan Yiqian
 and other Perpetual Chambers of Commerce  announced that they would confront Ling Baiyi for such an affront to their honor. This would obviously be a move that would put great pressure on the Ten Thousand Treasures Lodge, which opened the door for Ding Shan and other Perpetual Chambers of Commerce that supported him to plot against Wan Yiqian.

But, the only Chamber of Commerce that remained impartial during this internal instability in the Alliance Merchant was Empyrean One Pavilion, which was suppressed by
Ding Shan
. And after
Li Yunxiao
 identity was leaked, many learned about the fact that he carried a
Saint Artifact
 capable of welcoming people.

Reflecting on the current state of the Alliance Merchant and that with the matter of the battle against Ling Baiyi likely spreading, Empyrean One Pavilion would not be able to hold its reins, Therefore, she searches for Li Yunxiao and tries to test him by plotting a battle between him and Hao Gaoyuan, a peak Martial Sovereign expert who was invited by Ding Shan to refine the Pills “Eight Yin, Eight Yang”.

And Li Yunxiao defeats Hao Gaoyuan after some difficulties, guiding him about Ding Shan's possible plot regarding the true purpose of refining the Pills. After this, Li Yunxiao and Su Lianyi talk and Su Lianyi says that she planned this to test whether Li Yunxiao would be strong enough to protect her Chamber of Commerce in the future, which she can fortunately see easily.

After the battle with Ling Baiyi, the Ten Thousand Treasures Store is temporarily taken out of the Alliance Merchant by Ding Shan and Su Lianyi and her Empyrean One Pavilion leave with Li Yunxiao and become a personal strength under Li Yunxiao's control. Later, Su Lianyi became the chief manager of the logistics affairs of
Yanwu City
 and the
Southern Region
, cultivating under the influence of the Ten Directions Rules and reaching the Ten Directions Realm.