Explanation of the different positions/ranks in Sects and Merchant Associations.

Sect Master/President

The head of a Sect/Merchant Association and usually the strongest person.

The 7 Major Forces Sect Master are estimated to be at the
Divine Transcendence Realm
, while the Merchant Associations Leaders are estimated to be peak
9 Star Martial Sovereigns
, with the exception of Ten Thousand Treasure Houses Wan Yiqian, who is at the Divine Transcendence Realm.

Vice Sect Master/Vice President

The second-strongest person in a Sect/Merchant Association or on equal footing with the Sect Leader/President.

Young Palace Master/Young Master

The greatest talent(s) of a Sect/Merchant Association. They are usually the future head of a Sect/Merchant Association. In case of several young masters the future leader gets decided through various means (competition, cultivation, talent).

Elder

There can be several divisions for Elders:

Supreme Elder

The strongest of all Elders. Usually living in seclusion. Cultivation can be equal or higher to the Sect Masters.

Great Elder

The strongest Elder below the Supreme Elder. Leads all the other Elders.

Guardian Elders

In some branches of 2nd/1st-Rate sects and above, they are the strongest cultivators below the Branch Master. Leads all the other Elders.

Elders

The strongest Cultivators of a Sect, most trustworthy people.

Guest Elders

Not an official member of the Sect/Merchant Association, but acts as kind of a supportive force.

Disciples

Core Disciples

Very talented people among the disciples, and the disciples of the Sect Master or Elders.

Inner Disciples

Talented people among the disciples.

Outer Disciples

The ordinary disciples with average cultivation talent.

Old Ancestor / Ancestor

People coming from the
Eternal World
. They are from 100.000 years ago, when the Divine Realm Rules were still present in the
Heavenly Martial Realm
. Some are the founders of sects in
Great Tianwu
 or from
hidden families
, who reside in the
Four Seas
.