He is the Master of the Heavenly Jewel Sect, one of the three great experts of the
Duskflame Empire
. He, along with
Qi Feng
 of the Heaven-Gathering Sect and
Leng Xingbo
 of the Emotion Severing Mountain, were the symbols of the Duskflame Empire's martial path.

Plot

When Li Yunxiao, demanded the repayment of two billion mid-grade Primordial Stones owed by the sect's young mast
Wang Qiang
, Wang Songhe initially refused to pay, claiming it was a personal matter. Li Yunxiao threatened to take Wang Qiang's life as compensation, but later decided not to kill him and instead, came up with a plan to humiliate him and earn money. Wang Songhe then proposed a deal to Li Yunxiao, offering a
Divine Body
 called the "Bright Moon Divine Physique," which is a rare divine body that can be passed down through their sect's Legacy Land. Li Yunxiao agreed to try the inheritance and surprisingly succeeded in obtaining the Bright Moon Divine Body. As a result, the debt was considered nullified, and Li Yunxiao, along with his companions, used the sect's Inter-district Teleportation Formation to leave the Heavenly Jewel Sect.

Martial Flam City Coup d'état

Under the guise of "acting in the best interest of the Southern Region," Wang Songhe was actually taking advantage of the situation to openly seize control of Yanwu City. Seeing the city's crisis as an opportunity, he challenged the Li family’s rule.

Although Yanwu City had been entrusted to Li Yunxiao by the King of Tianshui, Wang Songhe argued that Tianshui was merely a vassal of the
Duskflame Empire
. Therefore, by his reasoning, his disciple,
Xin Ruyu
, had a greater right to rule the city.

With this, Wang Songhe attempted to rally support with help
Leng Xingbo
,
Yu Zizhen
, and
Fan Long
, using righteous-sounding words to justify his blatant power grab.

Not long after
Li Yunxiao
 suddenly arrived at Martial Flame City, putting an abrupt end to Xin Ruyu's ambitions. In a decisive move, Yunxiao crippled Xin Ruyu. In the face of yunxiao anger Wang Songhe, caught between powerful factions, attempted suicide to protect his family, believing it was his only way out. However, his death was merely an illusion, leaving him unharmed. As he stood in shock, Li Yunxiao coldly reminded him that his fate was not his own to decide, making it clear that he was now entirely at Yunxiao’s mercy.

He along with others that take part in this were given a chance at pardon on the condition that they destroy their own dantians as a form of punishment.

References