He is one of the Five Rulers of the
Holy Region
, he is an existence that can even make the
Conferred Martial Sovereign
,
Li Huachi
 fell in deep thoughts before even trying to fight him.

Appearance

Wei Qing had a lazy yet dignified presence. His clear eyes held a mysterious charm, and his handsome features, combined with his flowing hair, gave him an effortless elegance like a deity among men.

Personality

Wei Qing is a man of great talent and strategy. His schemes are deep, and his methods are fierce.

Plot

Martial Flame Crisis

Wei Qing, a powerful and mysterious figure, appeared in the sky above Yanwu City accompanied by the Year Burial Beast and
Yao Jinliang
, the Divine Command Martial Sovereign. They demanded the whereabouts of two siblings named
Meng Wu
 and
Meng Bai
. However, they couldn't find them, and Wei Qing used a mental attack to scan the crowd but didn't discover their hiding place in the
World God Monument
.

Wei Qing intended to use a transcendent-grade profound artifact, capable of breaking a realm, to locate the siblings.
Li Huachi
, the
Heavenly Zither Martial Sovereign
, tried to dissuade him due to the potential catastrophic consequences of shattering the realm, but Wei Qing was persistent. Li Huachi finally agreed to cooperate with Wei Qing to find the siblings and requested the Sanctuary to issue an iron law preventing other forces from interfering with
Yanwu City
.

After Li Huachi used his zither to control the crowd and made fell asleep for three days, Wei Qing and the others left, leaving Yanwu City in a state of awe and fear.

Crimson Crescent City

Wei Qing arranged for
Yang Yuanshu
 to attempt to kill
Ning Keyue
 at Purple Cloud Peak in the
Eastern Region
, near
Crimson Crescent City
. Out of concern, Qiu Mujie and he hire Ling Baiyi who felt frustrated and humiliated after his invasion of Crimson Crescent City, but knowing Ling Baiyi personality, he knew that there was a chance that the Conferred Martial Sovereign would not finish the job.

Hiding one of his expressionless puppets inside the Purple Cloud Peak, which results in Ning Keyue near death at the hands of Wei Qing, but, he is stopped by
Murong Zhu
, possessed by
Tian Si
.

Later, he steals Golden Dragon Bones from the Land of Rain and implants them into his body, which allows him to fight and leave
Ning Kewei
 on the brink of death in the disaster that reduced the Crimson Crescent City to a deplorable state.

From this intense and extensive battle between different sides seeking to gain benefits, Wei Qing appears with the intention of replacing the Crimson Crescent City Lord with the exquisite genius
Luo Qingyun
, who was under his orders and guidance. Introducing the Asura Ghosts in combat and the revolutionary and maniacal idea of creating True Spirit Blood.

After countless battles, Luo Qingyun and
Li Yi
 are allocated the position of Lord and Vice-Lord of the Superpower that undergoes drastic changes. After these events, Wei Qing sends the
Shadow Department Leader
 to Wufa, but unfortunately gets into an intrigue with the Rulers after receiving news that the Department Leader died.

Heavenly Dragon Sect

During
Fei Ni
 return to the
Heavenly Dragon Sect
, in the Long Family of the Sky Peak, Wei Qing seeks to intervene in Fei Ni goal of taking the position of Superpower Master, seeking to place his subordinate, the most powerful among the Long Family Elders, in the position. Because, with control over the Heavenly Dragon Sect in hand, Wei Qing could manufacture more Asura Ghosts and advance his research.

After revealing the
Sword of Judgment
 in his short combat with Che You, Wei Qing is convinced by Li Yunxiao and leaves the Sect. Which gives Li Yunxiao and Fei Ni a chance to take the position of Master of the Long Family of the Sky Peak, ensuring the protection of Fei Ni Martial companions.

Five Cloud Mountains

During the war with countless twists and turns in the Five Cloud Mountains, Wei Qing debuts
Meng Bai
 and his abilities, exposing the Phantom Asuras alongside his father and nearly killing
Huang
, the King of Monsters as he displays his skill with the Blade of Judgment, which provokes the wrath of Ruler
Hei Yuhu
.

Eternal World

Entering the
Eternal World
, Wei Qing, along with
Wei Wuya
,
Luo Qingyun
,
Li Yi
 and others... He steals one of the Four Pavilions that open the passage to the Eternal World.
 During the business deals arranged with
Yin Yu
 partner, they momentarily face
Feng Yaoli
, and Li Yunxiao companions. Receiving as a small payment for stopping Feng Yaoli antics, the Yin Yang Bottle, one of
Demon Emperor Di
 three Saint Artifacts.

Unfortunately, during the period in the Eternal World,
Lin
 helps Luo Qingyun break through the barrier of
Divine Transcendence
, causing the young man to reach the
Peak of Perfection
, which creates a distance between Wei Qing and Luo Qingyun, turning the two into Master and Subordinate relationship. And with Ling Baiyi death, Wei Qing suffers even more misfortunes.

Ganbo Mountain

After killing
Cangwu Qiong
, Li Yunxiao goes to Wei Qing hideout, and while fighting a battle with the hundreds of Asura Ghosts who, with the method of overcoming Wei Qing "Genetic Chain" limitation, delivered by Gongyang Zhengqi through a partner, all attained Divine Transcendence.

After a short battle with Wei Wuya and the Asura Ghosts, Li Yunxiao notices that with the aid of the Saint Artifact, Wei Qing has reached the Peak of Perfection, and after a discussion, Li Yunxiao decides to let Wei Qing continue with the new Heaven and Earth Power Chart competition, which was created to attract strong people who could be transformed into Asura Ghosts. This forms a small partnership between the two.

Power

Wei Qing possessed the Daluo Golden Bones, a golden bone banner inscribed with intricate runes. To further enhance himself, Daluo Golden Bones was one of the heaven-defying cultivation techniques that could change the age of bones.
He even utilized Qiu Mujie’s secret art, a technique that allowed him to transplant a powerful true spirit body into his own. This modification enabled him to wield abilities exclusive to those with a dragon bloodline, such as the Golden Dragon Claw and Dragon’s Roar.

References