other translation: Divine Realm Tablet

This page is under
development
.  All existing information will be
modified
 or
deleted
.  To help us
improve
 the
Eternal Supreme Wiki
 add some information about
World God Monument
 as it is released. We will fix it.

When the Tianwu Realm was first born, the Heavenly Saint Artifact Realm Divine Monument, which was created by the power of the world,

General Information





World God Monument - Manhua Ch. 61



Li Yunxiao
 found it in the Li family's treasure
. It's a spatial
Xuan Artifact
 and contains a world of its own. He is unable to refine it and only has basic control over it. Later, he learns the
Godly Realm Technique
, which gives him a more thorough control over the World God Monument.

Yunxiao uses it to store his treasures, imprison useful enemies, safekeeping his friends, subordinates, and family as well as means of fighting and cultivating.

Inside the World God Monument are 4 Territorys:

Fire

Wind

Earth

Water

Yunxiao reactivates them with the help of the
Divine Phoenix Flame
,
Immemorial Astral Wind
,
Breathing Earth
 and
Natural Water
 Elements, which are all close to the origin of their respective element.

The World God Monument has an
Artifact Spirit
, which is needed to complete it once again. It disappeared in Ancient Times.











Fire Domain



Usage

Yunxiao uses the power of the four domains to crush or suppress people, battleships, buildings, etc. He later manages to condense the chains of law which are condensed from Realm Power, able to suppress everything, tho due to Yunxiao's low mastery still weak.

Origin

The World God Monument is a heavenly supreme artifact born from the world. It's the symbol of controlling the power of a world. Each world only has one heavenly supreme artifact.

Residents

Friends, Subordinates, Prisoners who reside in Yunxiao's World God Monument.

Permanent

Duan Yue

Yue Jiulin

(originally imprisoned, later became subordinate)

Xiao Wu / Kunwu Divine Tree

Gu Yuesheng

(originally imprisoned, later became subordinate)

Pu Jinshan

(originally imprisoned, later became subordinate)

Haolian Shaohuang

Mo Xiaochuan

Yuan Gaohan

Ye Fan

Che You

Bin Chen

Evil Spirit

Hua Xiu

Ling Mudi

Beifeng Nan

Su Lianyi

Temporary

A few hundred minor characters in the first 200 Chapters, all stationed in
Yanwu City
 before Yunxiao enters
Mount Meru

Ding Ling'er

Luo Yunshang

Xiao Hong

Fei Ni

Narcissus

Han Junting

(imprisoned)

Qu Hongyan

Owners

Yan Shen

(former)

Li Yunxiao

(current)

Plot

To become a monument, firstly abandon the flesh, and secondly become a slave to the World God monument. To say good to the guardian of this world. For example, the True Dragon, the nature, are the same as the World God monument. It is born of the boundaries of one world and inherits the will of this world.

But to become a monument, not only to abandon the flesh, but also in the blood will leave the mark of the spirit of the monument. This brand is actually a double-edged sword. In your descendants, because of the blood, you get the favor of the boundary. No matter, in talent, cultivation, and opportunity, it will be far better than ordinary people . But because of this kind of care, your achievements will always be suppressed in the territory of the king, and will be controlled by the boundary forces.

The original messages were recorded in the World God monument, the consciousness left by the kings of the ages. Although it was incomplete and chaotic, but because the information covered was very comprehensive, Li Yunxiao completely digested it, and suddenly grasped the seven eight. In the past, before the World God monument, the World God monument will refine it with great power, or plant it, destroy its body and make it a servant, just boarding in the World God monument. At the same time, the servant is washed by the boundary force to help him reach the World King Realm.

This process, when each generation of World God monument is majored in the peak of the creation, will be automatically triggered. And rare contenders, most of which can only be accepted as a spirit, become a slave to the World God monument. But there are also some extremely powerful existences. Although they are only the peak of the creation, they can compete with the power of the World King, thus maintaining the interdependence and not being refined by the World God monument. But since then it has been suppressed by the World God monument, it is difficult to take a step forward.

If someone rushed to the World King, the World God monument will be helpless and could not control them. What's more, after the revitalization process of the World God monument was triggered, not only was it not refining the World God monument, but it was mainly anti-customer, directly refining the World God monument. But such a presence is rare even in the endless years of Heavenly Martial World.

The ruthless consciousness that Li Yunxiao got was seldom, but it was too long to be recognized.
 After refine the World God monument By Li Yunxiao, The power that comes out of the World God monument at the moment is very different from the previous one. The gap is like the Martial Warrior and the Martial Sovereign. Although only one word is missing, it is a far cry.

The bearer of the World God Monument is Titled as the World God/God of the Universe, capable of controlling the rules of the Realm.

Trivia

the divine realm tablet not only has its own world, but it also involves the realm power of the heavenly martial realm and connected to the realm power of the heavenly martial realm.

References