SPOILER ALERT!

She appears as a shy girl, carrying out minor tasks in Thunderwind Chamber of Commerce.

Apearance

A beautiful young girl with a delicate face wore a long white coat embroidered with a bright red flower.

Background

Xiaohong, was the spirit of the rainbow stone who recognized
Li Yunxiao
 as her brother in the East China Sea!

History

She first appeared in Haitian Town as a little girl of 12 years old.

Because of the strange aura
Yunxiao
 felt he took her in his
Divine Realm Tablet
 to further examine her. There she was swallowed by a "
Neon Stone
". At that time, Xiaohong absorbed the neon stone and combined it into a perfect neon body. Later, she was possessed and captured by
Di Ye
, and her whereabouts have been unknown since then.

Hidden Families

Martial arts competitions

Yunxiao Unexpectedly, meets her again in a
Martial arts competitions
 for the
Ancient Treasure Trove
 of
Ten Thousand Treasure Store
. She seemed to have gained back control over her body and suppressed Di Ye. Although her cultivation seemed to be that of a four star Martial Lord her actual combat power was even superior to that of a
Divine Transcendence
 being.

When Yunxiao left the competition, after using a teleportation array, he gets ambushed. It turns out that Xiao Hong personality split due to Di Ye influence. Her 'bad' personality, which was stronger than her 'good' personality, was the leader of the so-called "Heaven Alliance", a force consisting of hidden sects. She tries to kill Yunxiao. During their fierce fight, she can no longer suppress Di Ye and the latter once again gains control over her body. After an earth-shattering battle Yunxiao retreats while Xiao Hongs condition is unknown.

Heaven of Langya

Amidst a fierce battle with Jing Qi and his fiend corpse puppet, Xiao Hong intervenes, now more composed and mature. She urges Yunxiao to stand by her side, insisting that she remains unchanged despite Di Ye’s presence within her.

Yunxiao, however, refuses unless she severs ties with Di Ye. Their rift deepens when Xiao Hong requests the magic stone sword, a weapon of great significance. Viewing it as a threat, Yunxiao flatly rejects her, leading to a brief yet intense clash.

As tensions rise, Xiao Hong reveals the impending opening of the demonic realm, a revelation that unsettles Yunxiao. Despite their lingering bond, they part ways Yunxiao determined to move forward, and Xiao Hong resolute in her path. Though their confrontation ends, the weight of their unresolved conflict remains.

Trivia

She was the second girl after ding Ling'er whom Yunxiao had intimacy(intercourse) and in this case Yunxiao was forced by Xiao Hong to do so .