He is the prince of the
Duskflame Empire
, and one of the most talented persons of the younger generation in the Southern Region. He considered as the most talented person of the younger generation in the Duskflame Empire. Furthermore, he cultivated two heavenly techniques, which are the Heavenly Jewel Sect's Twenty-Four Bridges of Moonlit Night, and the Heavens-Gathering Sect's Void Scripture.

Plot

After The Golden Crow Arena

He, along with his mentor,
Yue Jiulin
, intercepts
Li Yunxiao
 and
Duan Yue
 as they leave Shangyang City. Xin Ruyu tries to intimidate Li Yunxiao into submitting to him, offering him a chance to become his servant and spare his life. Li Yunxiao refuses and attacks Xin Ruyu, displaying impressive speed and power. However, when Yue Jiulin intervenes, Li Yunxiao realizes that he and Duan Yue might not be able to defeat them in a direct confrontation.

Just as the situation becomes tense,
Baili Gongjin
, arrives with a group of men on a majestic Tiger-Shaped War Chariot. He questions Yue Jiulin's intentions for intercepting the Association's alchemist, Li Yunxiao. The situation becomes complicated, leaving Yue Jiulin in a situation he hadn't anticipated.

Li Yunxiao calls out Xin Ruyu for his arrogance and disrespect towards alchemists, revealing that the Alchemist Association has issued a pursuit order against him. This revelation surprises Yue Jiulin, who realizes the gravity of the situation.

As the confrontation intensifies, Baili Gongjin offers Xin Ruyu a way out, advising him to apologize to Li Yunxiao to resolve the matter peacefully. Xin Ruyu becomes angry, but eventually swallows his pride and leaves the scene with Yue Jiulin, heading towards Shangyang City.

The Martial Flame City Crisis

During the Martial Flame City crisis, Xin Ruyu took advantage of the chaos to stir up trouble. With Yanwu City’s spiritual energy depleting, he openly declared his intent to take over, claiming the Li family was unfit to rule. Backed by background as prince of
Duskflame Empire
, his master
Wang Songhe
, major force from
Duskflame Empire
, even one of 7 major power in tianwu
Beiming Dark Palace
 he sought to seize control of the city and its remaining resources.

Xin Ruyu ruthlessly struck down those who opposed him, severely injuring
Qian Duoduo
,
Li Changfeng
, and Xiao Qingwang as they tried to stop his takeover. Determined to eliminate the
Li Family
 influence, he even attempted to kill
Li Chunyang
. However, just as he was about to strike the final blow, Yunxiao suddenly appeared and stopped him.

Yunxiao reveal that Xin Ruyu managed to open 6 Gates of the human body with the help of a Unamed Master. Yunxiao then destroys all his 6 Gates and with that his Cultivation. Later he searches his soul, completely turning him into an idiot, before killing him.

Trivia

Xiaofeng Can/
Pan Yi
  taught Xin ruyu the divine ability in the hopes that he could cultivate it and see if he could improve on his Foundation. Thats why he have stayed in this cave and not out to see the world.

References