SPOILER ALERT!

Yao Jinliang
 (姚金良), the
Divine Control Martial Sovereign
 (神控武帝), the
Seventh-Ranked Martial Sovereign
 on the
Heaven and Earth Power Chart
 and he is the only beast tamer among them.

Plot

Martial Flame Crisis

He arrived in Yanwu City with the Year Burial Beast, a formidable creature at the peak of the ninth rank. Alongside the Year Burial Beast, Yao Jinliang confronted
Li Huachi
 and engaged in a tense conversation regarding the whereabouts of the siblings,
Meng Wu
 and
Meng Bai
.

However, they were unable to sense the siblings' auras and suspected that they were hiding in another realm. To ascertain their location, Kun Nu used a technique called the Prayer Technique to summon
Wei Qing
 divine will. Wei Qing probed the surroundings, looking for any traces of the siblings, and eventually discovered their presence in the World God Monument.

However, Li Yunxiao, intervened and set up powerful restrictions to protect the siblings from being detected. Wei Qing's efforts were thwarted, he intended to use a transcendent-grade profound artifact to break through realms and retrieve the siblings.

Li Huachi engaged in a conversation with Yao Jinliang and Wei Qing, discussing their plans and the potential consequences of their actions. Ultimately, Yao Jinliang and Wei Qing left Yanwu City after Li Huachi reluctantly agreed to help find the siblings to prevent the destruction of the southern region. And with one tune he made all the people below to fell asleep for three days.

Heaven of Langya

Yao Jinlian, along with
Wei Qing, Wei Wuya, Li Yi, Luo Qingyun, and Nanfeng Xuan
, arrived at the
Jade Pavilion
 with the intention of seizing its vast knowledge. Their true goal, however, was to find the
True Tail Phoenix Feather
, a legendary that could help them break through to the next level of power.

Technique

The Battle Saint Technique – Night Martial is a fusion technique with the Burying Claude Beast. As man and beast move as one, air currents surge, creating a blinding storm that distorts space. Golden light erupts from Yao Jinliang as he pushes the technique to its limit. With the Ghost Hunter Twist unsealed, an ominous glow fills his eyes. The evil spirit dagger rings out with a sharp clang, transforming into a blade of silver light, slashing down with unstoppable force.

Trivia

In a last attempt to get the True Phoenix Tail Feather he attacks Yunxiao and gets heavily injured. To avoid the humiliation of getting killed by him, who used to be of equal status in the past (Titled Martial Sovereign) he decided to commit suicide.

References