Ye Nantian was one of the greatest geniuses in Martial Arts and Alchemy that had ever existed since the Primordial Era before the Rules of the Ten Directions disappeared from the
Heavenly Martial Realm
. He understood the structure of all things and created a Xuan Artifact, which due to the lack of the Rules of the Ten Directions reached the pinnacle of the Alchemy Transcendence level, similar to the levels pseudo-divine Martial Arts and Body Tempering. Called
Noah Ark
, this Pseudo-Saint Artifact possesses unparalleled suppression and defense strength, it was sealed by Ye Nantian within the secret space within the
Eternal Evergreen Tree
, left for their descendants to seek in the future.

History

After Ye Nantian entered the
Eternal World
, he became a great expert who lived for 10,000 years with the consumption of the Phoenix Essence energy, which prolonged his longevity. He met his Ancestor
Ye Qingyu
 (King of the
Eastern Region
 from 100,000 years ago and an individual close to the
God the Universe
), and became one of the Four Kings of
Xuanli Island
, the King of Heaven.

He had previously held countless titles, such as one of the Rulers of the
Holy Region
 thousands of years ago.

Plot

Broken Cloud River

Ye Nantian appeared and killed
Zhan Chen
 to prevent him from escaping and to ensure that news of the Huangquan Hellfire did not spread. However, he allowed Li Yunxiao and his companions to leave, as the Lord of the World from Xuanli Island still needed Yunxiao and the Heavenly Martial Alliance for the impending war against the demonic forces.

After discussing and persuading the Misty Rock King, one of the four Kings of Xuanli Island and the greatest genius of the Heavenly Martial Realm in 100,000 years, not to kill
Li Yunxiao
,
Gu Qingqing
 and their companions, he took
Ye Fan
 body to Xuanli Island and took Noah's Ark back.

Demon Invasion

Later in the battle against the Demons and
Lu Congzi
 in the
Sea of Soul Formation
, Lu Congzi managed to trap Ye Nantian, which forced Ye Nantian to self-destruct Noah Ark to escape, After Li Yunxiao and his companions arrive at the hidden space below the Devil's Well, Ye Nantian is pulled into the Devil Realm through the wall of sealed demons.

Trivia

Ye Nantian could last six hours in the void extreme immortal state before got suppressed by the Tianwu rules. No one could surpass him in the past one hundred thousand years, which showed how powerful he was.