He is an extremely selfish person, who disregards others life and death to achieve his goals no matter the cost. He is also very afraid of death.

Background

Yin Yu was a True Dragon, ancient and powerful being. He was born from the very essence of heaven and earth, condensed by the power of the world, and is considered the head of all Ancient True Spirits.

Despite his immense power, Yin Yu is known to be a selfish and elusive individual. He did not directly participate in the Demon Sealing War 100,000 years ago, but his influence still affected its course.

Originally, Yin Yu should have been at the Realm King Realm, but he was beaten down from that peak and eventually exiled himself to the Wasteland of Time. There at the Dragon Shaking Hammer in the East China Sea, with only a remnant soul, his cultivation continued to deteriorate, causing him to fall to one of his lowest points in power. Now, after 100,000 years, he is a shadow of his former self, both pitiful and somewhat ridiculous.

Plot

Martial arts competitions

Li Yunxiao participates in the
Hidden Families

Martial arts competitions
 for the
Ancient Treasure Trove
.  Originally in the possession of the
Ten Thousand Treasure Store
 and now its treasures being part of a competition hosted by the
Natural Moat Order
, alongside the entry quotas for the
Mystic Realm Langya Heaven
. Yunxiao representing the
Mu Family
 appears and is shocked to see
Wu Dacheng
 alive and well.

Wu Dacheng  that representing the
Dragon Tooth Villa
 in the competition. managed to pass several rounds with his movement technique, which seemed close to the Heaven and Earth. The participants were unable to catch up to him.

In the final Battle Royale, in which the ranking is decided through people who destroy the most array nodes, he strangely disappears.

After the end of the competition, when the treasures are about to be distributed, Yunxiao discovers a problem. Of the original 1773 treasures, 500 have been taken away from Wan Yiqian's Ancestor in the past. 32 items of those 1773 were most likely supreme treasures (10th rank Xuan Artifacts). Of those 32 the Ancestor took 20 away. So in theory 12 should be remaining. But only 2 out of 12 were in the treasury.

After those treasures are distributed and everyone leaves, Wu Dacheng appears again. He took away 10 of those 10th grade Xuan Artifacts. Before he can leave tho, he gets obstructed by
Nanqiu Yu
, the Sect Master of
Natural Moat Order
. After a short conversation, Nanqiu Yu decides to let the mysterious Wu Dacheng leave with the Xuan Artifacts.

the True Dragon Horn

Later, he appears in the
Blade Sect
 headquarters, trying to exchange a dragon related item burried in their headquarters under the blade and sword peaks Dragon Horn from the true dragon, with one of his 10th tier Xuan Artifacts. The Sect Master
Chen Duantian
 refuses and tries to take him down just to fail miserably. Yunxiao suddenly shows up and helps to stop Wu Dacheng, which then takes out the Universe Light Plate (another 10th tier Xuan Artifact) and disappears in front of everyone's eyes.

After Yunxiao seemingly left, Yin Yu returned, attempting once again to seize the item. However, contrary to his expectations, Yunxiao had already anticipated his return and was waiting for him. As soon as Yin Yu appeared, Yunxiao stopped him, and a fierce battle erupted. Yin Yu quickly found himself at a disadvantage, surrounded by both the
Blade Sect
 and
Yunxiao.
Qu Hongyan
,
Che You
. Forced into a desperate situation, ultimately leading to the destruction of
the Universe Light Plate
 that triggered a space turbulence like a black hole that swallowed
Li Yunxiao
 along
with him vanished into the chaotic spatial rift, leaving his fate unknown.


Eternal World

Few Day after
Li Yunxiao
 with his group and later
Duanmu Yuyu
 with his sister visit
Bailun Jieyi
 At the stone house.

Yin Yu arrived  at stone house demanding the location of an unknown power. However,
Bailun Jieyi
 had erased her own memory, making it impossible for him to extract the information. Enraged, he prepared to kill her and search her soul, but before he could act,
Feng Yaoli
 appeared.

With the help of
Wei Qing
 and
Wei Wuya
, Feng Yaoli was unable to interfere, and Yin Yu successfully killed Bai Lun Jieyi and searched his soul. Only then did he realize it was all a trap. Bai Lun Jieyi had deliberately left vague information in his sea of consciousness, luring him deeper, and at the most critical moment, he triggered a mechanism that condensed the last of his Primordial Power into a storm, severely damaging his consciousness. Seeing Yin Yu's failure, Feng Yaoli chose to leave.

the True Tail Phoenix Feathers

In the far Northern Region's
Eternal World
 Wu Dacheng that teams up with
Wei Qing
 and
Feng Yaoli
 show up in
Lin
 territory to obtain the true tail Phoenix Feathers.

After meeting the Braham Monster
Lin
, a former World King Realm Master from more than 100,000 years ago, Yunxiao learns that Wu Dacheng, which real name is Yin Yu is one of those legendary existences called
True Dragon
, who are said to be born from Heaven and Earth. Then, Lin proposes a battle between Yunxiao and Yin Yu to determine the ownership of the True Phoenix Feathers.

As the duel's deadline arrived, Yin Yu and Yunxiao clashed in a fierce battle of wits and power. With Lin insight into Yin Yu’s techniques, Yunxiao gained the upper hand. Their battle was intense, leaving both sides heavily injured. In a decisive moment, Yunxiao unleashed his innate Moon Pupil Divine Skill Tianque, delivering a devastating soul attack that severely damaged Yin Yu’s sea of consciousness, leaving him in a wretched state. Just as Yunxiao was about to land the finishing blow,
Feng Yaoli
 intervened, stopping him. Not long after,
Lu Congzi
 and
Bo Yuqing
 infiltrated Lin’s sanctuary and abducted Yin Yu’s weakened body.

After the Demon King "
Man
" possessed the Yin yu body, he fought fiercely against Yunxiao’s group, shattering the
Realm of Eternal Life
 in the process. However, as a consequence, the
Heavenly Martial Realm's
 rules activated, suppressing the Demon King’s power. This gave the Yin Yu a chance to reclaim his body and, in his fury, he killed the other Devil Lord
"Ji "
 to vent his anger.

Seeing the tide turn against him,
Lu Congzi
 wasted no time. Using his
Soul Formation Seal
, he swiftly retreated from the battlefield.

Later in the Ocean Emperors Palcace Yunxiao meets Yin Yu again. It is revealed that Yin Yu is the Ancient True Dragon who has 9 sons in the legends. Also Yin Yu was the one who extracted large amounts of the Divine Phoenix Blood, 100.000 years ago in the Demon War from
Li Zhu
, to extent his own life, causing the death of the phoenix. In the Ocean Emperor Palace he tries to seize his son
Qiu
 true body, which is at the Dharma Body Stage and sealed below the Palace.

It turns out that Yin Yu doesn't care in the slightest for his children and only seeks his own benefit to extent his lifespan, even if that means sacrificing all of his children. In the fights ensuring Qiu's substitute body at the Virtual Light Realm gets destroyed, he then seizes his subordinate
Leng Tong
 body. After that gets destroyed as well Qiu splits his soul into millions of pieces and spreads them in all directions, much to the pity of Yin Yu who was disappointed that he couldn't refine and absorb his son.

It's revealed that because Yin Yu absorbed his sons dragon essence to maintain his cultivation, he attracted their hostility and created the feud between them. It's also because he turned on the evil path that his cultivation has been constantly falling. Yin Yu once again suffers a defeat against Yunxiao and his people. In the end he gets saved by the Lord of the Abyss "
Nine Abyss
" and retreats.

Power

Dark Dragon Seal
, which is specifically used to deal with the five elements spirit body.

Dragon Domain
. Yin Yu's Dragon Domain creates a terrifying black hole that devours all light and consciousness, resembling an endless abyss. As it expands, it transforms into a colossal black rose, This domain not only overwhelms opponents with its sheer power.

Dragon Territory Nebula Technique
 is a terrifying and mysterious power that condenses the vast energy of the nebula into a single, deadly form. When unleashed, a massive vortex emerges, shifting from black to red before rapidly shrinking into a blood-red rose that falls from the sky. the rose carries an immense suppressive force, making even powerful warriors like Li Yunxiao feel helpless. This also allows Yin Yu to manipulate space, reappearing unpredictably. This move is specifically for escaping.

Roar of a
True Dragon
, The ultimate killer move that Yin Yu displayed was the Throat of a True Dragon. This move not only attacked the body, but more seriously bombarded the soul.

Trivia

In Ancient Times, because of injuries due to some battles, his Realm fell from the World King to the Good Fortune Realm.

Back then, when Lin, the Demon Empress, was at her peak, she tried to kill Yinyu but failed.

True Dragon Bodies contain the laws of Heaven and Earth and can display the strongest understanding of speed, strength, defense, and attack at the same time

References